LESSON 1
Building the Perfect Shell
My mother is a wizard. Wizards can freeze time and sit on
ceilings. My mother isn't doing either of those things right
now, however, because she's passed out on the bathroom
floor, where she's been all day. I can see her bare brown
ass; it's protruding awkwardly in the air since her pants are
down, ruffled around her ankles. I'm embarrassed for her. I
want simultaneously to cover her and to cuddle up next to
her. I have tried to wake her up. She is needed in this
moment. The smoke is pouring into the apartment through
the windows and looks like thunderclouds, dark and puffy.
Both my brothers are in their cribs in the next room crying.
Screaming. Coughing. I keep hoping my mother will pop up
off the floor somehow, perform one of her miracles, and
save us all from the smoke. I have tried, but I am only six
and I don't know if I'm a wizard like my mother. In fact, the
only special power I seem to have is rising from the dead.
I rise from the dead every morning, excited to go to school.
School is no ordinary place; it is an extraordinary place for
extraordinary little boys and girls. At least that's what my
kindergarten teacher, Mrs. Jackson-Randolph, tells us. We
begin every morning by twirling on the magic carpet. It's old
and falling apart like the rest of our school, but Mrs. JacksonRandolph says we shouldn't focus on the negatives; we
should search for the positives in every situation so we don't
become bitter or discouraged. When the ceiling tiles leak
during a big storm, or our toys fall apart, or a mouse darts
across the classroom, Mrs. Jackson-Randolph shouts, “But
look at how much of the ceiling isn't leaking! Look how
many toys we still have! We are blessed and bountiful!” We
shriek with glee. We clap. She is right, we still have so
much. I know that even more is on the way thanks to the
wishes we make while twirling on the magic carpet.
Every morning, we twirl and twirl around one another
until Mrs. Jackson-Randolph tells us to “Freeze!” Then we all
freeze in whatever position we find ourselves. “Now make a
wish,” Mrs. Jackson-Randolph says. “Think about someone
you really, really love and make a wish for them. We
shouldn't only wish for things for ourselves. We also have to
think about others.” I'm happy to wish for someone else this
time since I have already wished everything for myself: a
pink motorized Barbie truck that I can drive down the
sidewalk like I see the girls do in the commercials on TV; an
Easy-Bake Oven so I can make cakes like my mother does;
more red bows and ponytail holders so I can make my hair
look better (it never looks right); and lots of crayons,
markers, and colored pencils so I can color all the coloring
books in the world.
I make other wishes also, secret wishes, but don't tell
anyone about those. Like wishing I was just a little more
light-skinned like my best friend, Jessie Stewart. Jessie and I
hold hands, walk to school together, and sit next to each
other in class. I only just met Jessie at the beginning of the
school year, but we have already become like brother and
sister. When Mrs. Jackson-Randolph isn't looking, we pass
candy and make funny faces at each other. Sometimes we
even cover our ears and scream at the top of our lungs to
see if our voices can reach all the way to outer space where
the aliens live. Maybe they will hear us and come twirl with
us on the magic carpet. We wonder what wishes the aliens
would make. Mrs. Jackson-Randolph does not like when we
scream and wrinkles her face while telling us to use our
inside voices. We nod yes, but start screaming again as
soon as she turns around. Screaming, like yawning and
sneezing, is contagious. Soon, almost everyone in the class
starts screaming, including my two other friends, Tiffany
and Davante. None of us can out-scream Tiffany. Her highpitched shrills cause Mrs. Jackson-Randolph to cover her
own ears and shout, “Enough!” We all stop midscream,
mouths wide open, and stare awkwardly around the room at
one another until she tells us to close our little pie holes.
“But I don't like pie, so mine gotta be anotha kinda hole,
don't it?” says Davante, who always has something smart to
say. Mrs. Jackson-Randolph slowly turns around and stares
intensely at Davante, until he lowers his eyes in shame. No
one says another word.
Davante's parents are Black Panthers. I don't know
exactly what that means, but they have large Afros and are
always dressed in black, including black sunglasses, which
they keep on all the time, even inside the school when they
pick up Davante. I wonder if they always wear sunglasses
because they secretly don't have eyes. People without eyes
would be scary, so I hope they never take off the sunglasses
if they really don't have eyes. The sunglasses inside are not
the only strange thing about Davante's parents. They also
raise their fists all the time, like they're going to punch
someone, but I never see them hit anyone. Davante raises
his fist like his parents, but only sometimes, like on picture
day.
I wish Jessie, Mrs. Jackson-Randolph, Davante's Black
Panther parents, or any of my friends were here right now to
help stop the smoke and save us. I stare at my brothers in
their cribs. I put my hands through the bars and pat their
foreheads to try to get them to stop crying, but tears are
pouring out of their eyes and their little arms and legs are
shaking. They know something is wrong, too. I am shaking
like my brothers. There is a pinching in my throat, like
someone is squeezing it closed so no air can get in. I have
only felt like this one other time, when Tiffany and I almost
drowned at the beach.
Mrs. Jackson-Randolph takes us on a class field trip to see
the gray lighthouse at Lake Erie. “Each of us is a
lighthouse,” Mrs. Jackson-Randolph says, “shining our light
and purpose out into the world. Your purpose can be as big
and vast as the water in front of you. It's never too early to
start thinking about what you want to do in this world, deep
down in your heart. Whatever it is, make sure it helps other
people in some way. We have to take care of each other.”
When Mrs. Jackson-Randolph says this, Tiffany grins and
gives me a big hug. I squeeze her back tightly until she
starts squirming. If I had a sister, I imagine she would
probably look like Tiffany. I stare at the lighthouse across the
water, close my eyes, and scrunch my face up trying to look
inside my brain to see what my purpose is, but I can't think
of anything. My mother is always saying, “This ain't no place
for a girl chile. Lawd, I prays fo da day when someone heps
da lil girl chiles of dis worl', 'specially da black ones.” I don't
know why the “lil girl chiles” need so much help, but maybe
that can be my purpose, to help the other “lil girl chiles.”
I'm not sure yet. I will have to scrunch my face up and look
inside my brain again to see if there are any answers in
there.
When Mrs. Jackson-Randolph isn't looking, a few of us run
excitedly toward the water, trying to get to the lighthouse
and see for ourselves what's inside. We sprint ahead until
Mrs. Jackson-Randolph yells at the top of her lungs, “Stop!”
Everyone freezes except me and Tiffany. We can't stop. The
water calls us forward as we try to outrun each other,
splashing and splashing. I look over and see that Tiffany, my
almost-sister, is laughing and smiling just like me, until the
water begins to swallow us, pulling us way down. Tiffany's
smile disappears, and she starts frantically flapping her
arms, screaming, “Help! Help!” Suddenly, the sun moves
from behind a cloud and shines brightly in our direction. I
can see Tiffany's illuminated wet face bobbing up and down
in the water. She stops screaming and struggling and stares
right up into the sunlight. It's so bright I can't look at it, but
Tiffany's eyes are focused upward and she doesn't look
afraid anymore.
But I am. I try to scream for help for both of us, but I can't
because I'm choking. My chest is full of water and my throat
is pinched closed. I can barely breathe, even after Mrs.
Jackson-Randolph pulls us to shore.
I can barely breathe right now because of the fear and the
smoke, which is swallowing me and my brothers, just like
the water at the beach. Now I know that it's not only the
water that can take your breath. I wonder what happens
when you stop breathing.
On picture day, we all buzz around school like honeybees
returning to the hive. We are ecstatic to be dressed up and
leaving class one hour early. When the time finally arrives,
we bolt down the hallway to the cafeteria, where bleachers,
cameras, and special lights have been set up. Everyone
looks pretty on picture day, especially Jessie. All the girls
circle around him, trying to touch his soft hair. Tiffany grabs
Jessie's hand and pulls him away from the girls, saying he's
her “baby.” She says it like a mother would say about their
child, but we all know she means boyfriend. I want Jessie to
be my boyfriend, like all the other girls in the class do, but
Tiffany is bigger and stronger than all of us so I guess she
can have him.
My mother calls Jessie “the little high-yellow boy that lives
'round the corna on Foster Street.” Jessie is the only high-
yellow kid in the class. The rest of us range in color from
caramel to dark brown, like wet dirt. Everyone says Jessie
has “that good hair” because he's mixed with black and
white. His hair is curly and falls in thick black ringlets down
the sides of his face. He looks like he could be Middle
Eastern or Latino. I ask my mother repeatedly if I can get a
relaxer so my hair can look like Jessie's. Tiffany already has
a relaxer, and now her hair is silky smooth and not knotted
and nappy like mine. My mother thinks I'm too young to get
a relaxer and tells me to stop asking her about it. Even
though she says no, I still wish for a relaxer every morning
on the magic carpet.
When it's time to take the class picture, we all stand,
wobbling and smiling on the bleachers. Jessie stands next to
me and grabs my hand, like he always does. Tiffany tries to
kiss Jessie on the cheek, like she always does, but he turns
his face in disgust. Davante raises his fist like his parents,
which blocks the faces of two people standing behind him.
Mrs. Jackson-Randolph shakes her head when she looks at
the photo on the cameraman's camera and says we will
have to take another one. This time we must stand still, look
directly ahead, and smile proudly. We nod yes, but when the
photographer says “One, two, three … cheese!” we sprint
around the bleachers, make funny faces, and hug and hit
each other. After eight pictures, Mrs. Jackson-Randolph
finally gets one she's satisfied with. Frazzled and exhausted,
she walks us outside to where our parents are waiting. The
end of the school day is a relief for all of us. We scatter, like
marbles in a pinball machine, into the arms of our parents.
My mother doesn't gallop, like most of the men in my
neighborhood, but instead streaks forward with the fury of a
thousand panthers, grabs my and Jessie's hands, and drags
us along the concrete sidewalk all the way home.
As soon as we get home, it's reading time, which is a very
special time. My mother opens the pink box sitting on the
dresser with the black spinning ballerina inside who twirls to
the song “What a Wonderful World” and has a bright white
light in the middle of her stomach, which my mother says
symbolizes the light we all have inside. I don't see any lights
inside myself or anyone else, so I don't know what she's
talking about. My mother says she will let me have the pink
ballerina box when I'm old enough not to break it. Once
everything is quiet and cozy, my mother gathers Jessie and
me in the big armchair and reads several of the books piled
by the chair. Books like Green Eggs and Ham, Goldilocks and
the Three Bears, and The Cat in the Hat. Reading time is my
favorite. I can't read yet, but I love listening to the
adventures of all the characters in the stories. Plus, reading
time is really the only time my mother softens. Her voice
and eyes grow warm, and she kisses us on the forehead
after each story. I secretly wish reading time would never
end.
Staring down at my mother unconscious on the floor, I
think about who will bring me home after school and read to
me if she doesn't get up. My stepfather is never around, and
Jessie's parents are very mean. What if no one takes me to
school again? I will miss all my friends and Mrs. JacksonRandolph. I look intensely at my mother and begin to worry
that she is dead.
I have seen only one other dead person in my life, at Mr.
Casey's funeral last year. I ask my mother why he isn't
moving. Why he won't get up out of the box in front of the
church. My mother calls the box a “casket” and says he
won't get up because “he's dead and gone to the inbetween wit' da rest of da ancestors. He ain't neva comin'
back ta dis worle.”
I tell my mother I die every night also, but I've never seen
Mr. Casey in my dreams.
“Sleepin' ain't da same thang as dyin', chile. You don't
neva wake up when you dead and gone.”
I feel sad that Mr. Casey will never wake up again. He
used to give me and my brothers candy every time he saw
us and say, “Children are the bravest of all, so they deserve
special, sweet treats,” and pat us on the head. And now he's
gone to the in-between, which is a place I have never been,
but my mother says we will all go there one day. I hope not
anytime soon. I'm still getting used to this world.
I want to ask her what the in-between is, but the pastor
starts preaching all about Mr. Casey's life and
accomplishments. Mr. Casey's family starts whooping and
hollering all around the church. It sounds like the feral cats
that roam the streets by our apartment when they are in
heat. One of Mr. Casey's relatives runs up to his coffin and
throws her whole body over the casket while yelling in a
shrill, high-pitched voice, “Why? Why? Why ya hafta take
'im so soon?”
My mother shakes her head and says, “So soon? Lawd,
dat man was ninety-three years old. I don't know why
people's got to be so dramatic and act a damn fool. Jus' be
wantin' attention.”
I watch the ushers work to pull away three people who
have made their way to the front of the church. They
continue their feral-cat screaming and claw feverishly at Mr.
Casey's casket. I wonder if all funerals are this chaotic.
Right now, my mother looks like Mr. Casey did in his
casket that day. I tell her that she can't go to the in-between
yet. She is still needed here. I tell her I wished for her at
school today on the magic carpet. I wished that she would
take down her shell more often and show us the warm parts
underneath.
My mother has had her shell since she was a little girl like
me. She spent years “gettin' it jus' right and makin' doubly
sho it was strong enough,” which is why she never likes to
take it down. I am shocked when I find out my mother
wasn't born with her shell—that she had to learn how to
build it. Being a wizard is not what you think. In fact, it
requires serious training. The first lesson is how to build a
shell. My mother is a master at this. She flips a switch and—
bam!—she's gone. A million miles away. And what's left is a
hard shell. She started developing this shell when she was a
young girl, after her uncle started doing bad things to her in
the bathroom in the middle of the night. I ask her what
things he did, but she tells me not to worry about it because
those things will never happen to me. I'm glad. I don't want
bad things to happen to me, either.
The bad things happened from the time she was my age
until she was ten. Every time he came to her room late at
night, she would hide under the covers. She would pull them
up over her head and wish she was invisible. (Unfortunately,
wizards don't have the power of invisibility.) Her uncle would
come and carry her to the bathroom and do the bad things.
She would leave her body and sit on the ceiling until he
finished. Leaving her body wasn't enough, however. At the
end, she always had to come back down because “you
cain't stay on the ceiling foreva,” she said. She would cry
alone in her bed after it was all over, her small body sulking
and shaking in the dark.
So she learned how to build a shell around herself. When
she put the shell up, she didn't feel anything, and that's
what she needed to protect her warm parts inside. She
knew that the shell would have to be hard enough to keep
out the rest of the bad things coming her way. She didn't
make just any shell. She made a double-layered shell that
was impenetrable. Airtight.
The shell couldn't stop the sinking, however. My mother
said she sank all the way down to the bottom of herself,
after what her uncle did to her. “So fuh down, my mama had
to come get me and brang me back, but I don't wanna talk
'bout huh, my mama. You heah? I ain't neva got ova what
happn'd … Don't ask me no mo questions 'bout huh. You
heah? Chi'run is too damn nosy. Got a question fo
ev'rythang. I sweah ta God.” Every time we ask my mother
about her mother, her shell flies up and she gets so mad. I
wish I could have met my grandmother so I could ask her
myself what happened, but she, like Mr. Casey, is no longer
in this world.
Besides reading time, my mother rarely takes down her
shell. I want her to take it down more often because I need
the warm parts underneath that she keeps hidden. I have
been trying to build my own shell, to protect my warm parts
also, but it's hard. I just want to twirl on the magic carpet
with all the people in the world, but I know that's not
possible. Some people are dangerous.
I wish I had a shell right now to protect me from all this
smoke. It keeps pouring in and is getting thicker. I know if
my mother doesn't get up soon, it will fill the entire
apartment. I waddle back to the living room, where my
brothers are still crying. I have an overwhelming urge to
save them. I can't figure out what to do. I look around the
room for help. The lights are off. The TV is on. The glare
disturbs me. The people on the TV are not helping. Neither
is the sad-looking man with brown hair and blue eyes
hanging in a picture frame on the wall. I reach toward him
and the people on the TV, trying to grab them and show
them we need help, but my arms are too short. I'm wearing
a long T-shirt and my hair is in braids like Ms. Celie's from
The Color Purple. I'm trying not to cry, but the tears fall from
my eyes and I start to panic. I wonder where my stepfather
is. Maybe he can come and save us from the smoke. I listen
for his keys jingling at the door. I pray for the sound but hear
only the TV.
The men can build shells, too, but they are not wizards. I
never see them make miracles. I only see them make chaos.
My father is not my biological father—he's my stepfather,
but my brothers' biological father. I still call him father and
not stepfather because he's raising me. My mother said my
real father is a “lyin'-ass, conniving-ass, no-good-ass
mothafucka wit' thirteen kids”—all girls—“by different
womens, and he don't take care a' none of 'em.” My mother
tells me to forget about him, but I still wonder where he is
and what he looks like and if he drinks like my stepfather,
who is drunk all the time. My brothers and I love it when my
stepfather gets drunk. He comes to life, gleefully bouncing
us on his knees and telling us stories about what a great
man he is. He tells us he's a member of the T-Man
Trivilization. We don't know what it means because they
never teach us about the T-Man Trivilization in school. We
later learn that trivilization is not a real word and that he
actually means civilization. He's been out of the South for
almost twenty years, but his Alabama accent is so thick, he
sounds like he has a mouthful of cotton when he talks. He
stretches out his words and talks slow, like molasses
running down a maple tree, except when he cusses, which is
the only time he ever talks fast. He loves to cuss and often
forms entire sentences with just cuss words. I once heard
him say “Goddammit, hell naw, shit, hell naw, shit,
goddammit, hell naw!”
My brothers and I enjoy my father's drunken antics, but
we know they won't last long. Eventually, after the glow of
the alcohol has worn off, there will be a fight. There is
always a fight. My father will begin making his fast cussword sentences, directing them at my mother, shooting
them into her like bullets. My mother will raise her shell, and
the chaos will begin. She will spin around the apartment like
a tornado, destroying everything in her path. I don't
understand how she can make so many miracles and yet
cause so much chaos. How she can be so dazzling and
destructive at the same time.
LESSON 2
Making Something Out of Nothing
I am always astonished by my mother's spectacular
miracles. Even though she can't do it right now because
she's lying facedown on the bathroom floor, I see her make
miracles all the time. Like making something out of nothing,
which is the second lesson of wizard training. I don't
understand how she does it, how she is able to make things
appear out of thin air. My mother is truly gifted at this.
One day, when we are much older, my brothers and I sit
at the kitchen table, starving. We have each already eaten a
bowl of dry cornflakes (we refuse to add water and there is
no milk). We have also eaten Miracle Whip and cheese
sandwiches on white bread, but we are still hungry. We don't
dare say we are hungry. By now, we also have shells and
hide behind them like we have been taught. We sit quietly
at the table poking and prodding one another. We are never
quiet unless we are hungry or at one of my mother's
Saturday-night grown folks' spades parties. We don't make a
peep as we glance out of the corner of our eyes at our
mother, waiting for the miracle. She stands, hunched over
the sink, smoking a cigarette, pretending like she doesn't
see, but we know she does. We can feel the electricity of the
approaching miracle coursing through her body. And then,
from her hunched position, she rises and calls out my name,
“Ecka, watch yo brothas,  be right back. Don't let
nobody in, you heah?” I nod faithfully. We quietly watch her
leave.
As soon as she's gone, we run to Ms. Patty's apartment in
the front of the building. Ms. Patty is sixty-eight years old,
lives alone, has lived in the apartment building since before
we were born, and has a lot of health problems. Her voice is
very hollow and scratchy because she had throat cancer
many years ago and they had to remove one of her vocal
cords. She sounds like Marge Simpson's sister from The
Simpsons. Her back is also hunched over because she has
sciatica. She's always drinking from a plastic purple Kool-Aid
cup. No matter what time of day you knock on her door, she
has that purple cup in her hand. Ms. Patty feeds us
constantly. She tells us she knows our mother “been goin'
thru some thangs,” so she has to make sure we don't start
looking like “dem little po', big-belly babies in Africa we
always see on the late-night TV commercials.” She makes
us peanut butter and jelly sandwiches or gives us big
hulking slices of lemon pound cake that she makes from
scratch.
Our apartment is behind Ms. Patty's in the back of the
building on the top floor and doesn't face the street, so we
can't see what happens on the sidewalks, which is why we
always run to her apartment when one of our parents
leaves, to see in which direction they go.
“Ms. Patty! Ms. Patty!” we yell while banging on her door.
“Let us come sit on da porch wit' you!”
Ms. Patty pulls open the door and says, “Lawd, if y'all ain't
the loudest chi'runs in dis buildin'! Go on, but don't touch
nothin'. Nothin'! You hear me?!”
We nod our heads yes and then run through her
apartment touching everything we can on the way to the
porch while giggling uproariously.
Ms. Patty hit the lottery many years ago, but no one
knows how much she won for. She has the nicest apartment
in the building, and it's full of strange fancy items like
painted glass vases; a cabinet with white porcelain dishes
on display; the biggest TV we've ever seen in our lives; and,
taking up an entire wall, framed paintings of black people
picking cotton and getting whipped in various positions. My
brothers and I wonder why anyone would want pictures like
that all around their apartment. Ms. Patty says it's to honor
the struggles of the ancestors so that she never forgets
where she came from.
“But you don't come from no cotton field, Ms. Patty. You
come from Philadelphia,” Rone says when she tells us about
the paintings.
“Aww hush, boy! I swear y'all have da fas'est and freshest
lil mouths, jus' like dem damn Bébé's kids!”
She's right. At this age, we are like Bébé's kids—the
characters in a popular animated movie that run around
making a ruckus. Nobody can stop Bébé's kids from
wreaking havoc and destruction wherever they go. Bébé's
kids would have broken all the nice things in Ms. Patty's
apartment, but we don't break anything on our sprint to the
porch. We just run our hands over as many surfaces as
possible, including her glass vases and the china cabinet.
Later Ms. Patty will tell our mother, “Dey cain't neva come
back to my apartment 'cause dey leave greasy handprints
all ova my shit.” But she always lets us back in.
When we finally arrive on the porch, we see our mother
drive off in a red Buick with a man we don't know. A few
minutes later, Ms. Patty emerges with her purple cup and
tells us to “sit down somewhere until ya mama get back.” I
wonder if she knows my mother is a wizard and that she is
going to perform one of her miracles. I search Ms. Patty's
eyes for a glimmer of knowing, but I don't see any flashes of
insight. My brothers and I sit on plastic chairs on the left
side of the porch and stare up and down the street. This
porch is the epicenter of social life for the apartment
building in the summer. My parents, Ms. Patty, and their
friends sit there for hours on warm summer days, talking
about everything: politics, the old days, the future, and the
people on the sidewalk. Ms. Patty is notorious for making
comments about people passing by, whether she knows
them or not. My mother says, “Ms. Patty talks about er'body.
She jus' cain't hep huhself. She got ta be observin' and
commentin' on ev'rythang.”
Shortly after Ms. Patty joins us on the porch, she begins
her observations: “Ooooh, look at huh. Got all dem damn
kids dat she cain't take care of. Ooooh, what's happenin' to
da young folks today, Lawd? Wearin' all dese tight dresses
and thangs.” Ms. Patty suddenly turns to us and tells us,
“Cova up y'all's eyes,” so we won't see what Danielle, the
woman across the street, is wearing. We've already seen,
but we still cover our eyes. We peek through our fingers and
watch Danielle, who lives down the street and has five kids,
saunter up the sidewalk. All the men parked in vans on the
side of the street yell out to her, “You lookin' mighty fine
today, Ms. Danielle. When you gon' let one a' us have a
piece of dat?”
After Ms. Patty has done all her secret observing, she yells
down in a syrupy-sweet but fake voice, “All right, Ms.
Danielle, how you doin' today? I like dat outfit. You lookin'
mighty good, gurl! And how dem kids?”
Danielle hollers back, “Er'body doin' good, by da grace of
God.”
Ms. Patty responds, “I know that's right. All we got is
grace. Well, I'm glad you doin' good. Have a blessed day,
now.”
As Danielle walks away, we uncover our eyes and Ms.
Patty continues her commenting.
“Ooooh, dat girl jus' ain't done nothin' wit' her life 'cept
single-handedly repopulate da whole damn earf. Ooooh,
Lawd keep her high in yo favor, 'cause she shole gon' need
as much grace as you can give. If dat ain't da truf, I don't
know what is.” Ms. Patty takes a sip out of her purple cup
while chuckling to herself.
My brothers, Jerone and Teandre—Rone and Dre, and I sit
for the next hour on Ms. Patty's porch while she drinks and
talks about everybody who walks by. She must be taking the
smallest sips known to man because she never seems to
run out of liquid. When we finally see the red Buick back on
the street and turning into the driveway, we run down the
hall to our apartment and sit quietly at the table, putting our
shells back up.
Our mother bursts through the door with McDonald's, our
favorite, and two bags of groceries. We are astonished. How
did she do it? With no money. With no job. She has turned
air into food. Amazed, we sit at the kitchen table feasting
upon her miracle. We gobble the cheeseburgers and fries,
and gulp down the sodas. She stands, leaning against the
sink, smoking a cigarette, watching us. Her eyes are dead.
Her clothes and hair are disheveled. She doesn't say
anything. She is cold and detached. Behind her shell again. I
ask, “Momma, do you want some?” Suddenly, the shell
breaks and tears begin pouring out of her eyes. We stop
eating. We are shocked. We are disturbed. We don't
understand. Why is she crying after she has produced such
a marvelous miracle? “No, baby,” she says. “I'm awright.”
She's not “awright” now, though. She's lying on the
bathroom floor, not moving. And the house is burning. I
don't know that the house is burning. I am only six and
don't know what smoke means, but I know something is
wrong. I see several birds chirping frantically outside the
open window. As soon as I notice them, everything starts to
move in slow motion. The people on the TV talk much
slower. The black clouds of smoke roll in slower and slower.
The birds seem to know something is wrong. They fly in
circles right outside the window. I want to tell them to fly
far, far away before the smoke swallows them, too, but
before I can, I hear muffled voices shouting, “Is there
anyone inside? Is there anyone up there?” I hear sirens
blaring, right outside the apartment. I don't have many
words yet. So I start crying. I stand in the middle of the
room and cry as loud as I can. I try to push all the energy of
my body into my voice. I amplify myself, attempt to become
just sound. A sound so big it can reach the voices outside.
It works! I hear someone coming up the stairs. I hear Ms.
Patty's voice. I hear my father's voice. I hear other voices. I
hear pounding. I hear keys jingling at the door. Suddenly,
my father bursts into the apartment and in one fell swoop
grabs us all—my mother, Rone, Dre, and me—in his big,
drunken arms. He is not cussing now. He is quiet and
focused. More quiet and focused than he's ever been in his
entire life. He transforms himself into a nest and carries us
all away from the smoke. It is the only miracle I have ever
seen him make. Our tiny hands grip the back of his neck as
he gallops forward, unstoppable, until he emerges outside
into the crisp, stinging air. I rest my head on his shoulder
and watch as the birds fly away north into the night sky.
When I am older, I ask my mother what she was dreaming
about when she was lying on the floor while our apartment
building was on fire. She said she wasn't dreaming, she was
praying. She was in a crack cocaine–induced coma that
almost took her life. She could hear me nearby and wanted
desperately to help, but she couldn't activate her body.
Instead she lay there and prayed the whole time. She said
she had no choice but to surrender to the beyond. It was out
of her hands. So when she was lying there, in a puddle of
her own vomit, with pants down and her body paralyzed,
she prayed, “Dear God, please let my chi'run be diff'rnt.
Please, God. This ain't no kind of life. It might be too late fo
me, but it ain't too late fo dem. Make a way, God. Make a
way out of no way.”
She spiraled those prayers so far and deep into the
universe, she felt like she left her body altogether and
traveled to the in-between: the quantum field of infinite
possibility where miracles originate, where the ancestors
live, and which exists between this world and the beyond. In
that place, outside the limitations of time and space, she
begged for mercy, for another way, and the whole quantum
field vibrated from the impact of her desire. In fact, the
universe began to reimagine the trajectory of what was
possible. Unforeseen realities for me and my brothers began
to take shape. My mother is no ordinary wizard. She is a
quantum wizard with the power to disrupt the future by
spiraling her prayers far beyond the man-made barriers of
this world.
LESSON 3
Reaching the In-Between
I wonder if I came from the in-between, if that's where I was
before I was born. My mother said that's where she went on
the night of the fire and that's where all the dead people
are. I wonder if that's where all the born people are as well,
before they are born. Nobody will answer my questions
about the in-between—where it is, who lives there, how to
get there—so I make up my own stories. It's at the top of
the sky, way above, where the blue part ends. And aliens,
not ancestors, live there. I stare up at the sky with my
notebook, trying to see where it is. I squint my eyes, which
causes the sides of my mouth to pull up, like I'm smiling,
but I'm not. I bend my head all the way back until it feels
like it's going to fall off. I still don't see anything but clouds
and sun rays. God has hidden it well, I think.
I ask my third-grade teacher, Mrs. Samuels, if she has
ever seen the in-between at the top of the sky where the
aliens live and where we spiral our prayers. She cranes her
head confusedly to the side and says there's no such thing
as the in-between. “There's nothing but empty space, other
planets, and the sun above the sky.”
I stare at her doubtfully. “But my mother went there,” I
say definitively. “So it has to be hidden somewhere we can't
see.”
“Sweetie, I don't know what you're asking me. No one
knows what's above all of that, but I very much like your
curiosity.”
On the first day of school, Mrs. Samuels gives us all
notebooks and tells us we have to be scientists in our own
lives, curious about our surroundings. Like scientists, we
should write down our observations about the world around
us. She doesn't need to tell me that, however, because I'm
already very curious about everything. In addition to my
curiosities about the in-between, I am also curious about my
parents and the other adults in my neighborhood. I observe
them carefully and take notes about my findings in the
small notebook. I figure out that the adults are very strange,
and not like us children. For example, they seem to be angry
all the time, even at little things like when we forget to close
the screen door, or when we come running up the stairs in
excitement. And when there is food in the house, my mother
gets very angry when we don't eat every single bite on our
plates. Sometimes, I get so stuffed, I feel like my belly will
explode. I feel like the white Pillsbury Doughboy who's
always on TV. I don't want to eat another bite, but there is
still so much food on my plate. I try to sneak the plate past
my mother, who is talking on the phone, but she sees me
and tells me to “sit right on down and scrape dat plate. You
thank food grows on trees?! Well, some of it do … But dat
ain't da point. Ain't gon' be nothin' wasted in dis house!” I
sit for another hour taking small bites until all my food is
finally gone.
I tell my brothers we have to observe our parents like
they are specimens in the laboratory to figure out why they
are so strange. My brothers hate school, but they love
observing. The only time I ever see them focus all the
attention in their brains is when we are secretly observing
the adults. I have tried to convince them of how important
school is, even setting up a pretend school on the weekends
to teach them everything Mrs. Samuels has taught me, but
they wiggle and squirm and eventually run around the living
room screaming, “Noooo!” They sit as quiet and still as
rocks when we are observing, however, like they are about
to learn the most important lesson in the world.
Our favorite place to secretly observe adults is at the
Saturday-night spades game. My parents dress up and invite
all their rowdy friends over. Spades is a popular card game
for black people in America that involves lots of trashtalking, like “Who taught you how to play spades, nigga,
Stevie Wonder?” At first, my brothers and I think the adults
will begin fighting when they start their trash-talking, but
two minutes later they are laughing and joking, slapping the
table in glee, and patting one another on the shoulder. The
trash-talking seems to be how they bond and build
community during the game. My brothers and I practice
trash-talking after the party by hurling insults we hear
during the game at each other. We know we are not
supposed to say cuss words, so we cover our mouths and
giggle while mocking the strange adults.
The process of setting up the game is the same every
time. First, my father assembles two white plastic foldout
tables, one in the middle of the room and one by the
window. Next, my mother sets out an assortment of snacks
and drinks: potato chips, fried pig skins, peanuts, cans of
Pepsi, and fresh Kool-Aid. Their friends bring bottles of Colt
45, packs of cigarettes, and small plastic bags filled with
white rocks. Later, they will all be crawling around on the
floor searching for any white rocks that might have fallen. I
don't understand why anyone would crawl around on the
floor picking up rocks, so I write it down in my notebook as
part of their strange behavior. After everything has been set
up, my mother puts a record on. She always plays oldpeople songs by Marvin Gaye, Aretha Franklin, Al Green,
Sam Cooke, Otis Redding, and the Temptations. She rotates
the records throughout the night until all her favorite hits
have been played.
My brothers and I wish she would play newer music like
Tupac or Immature or Mariah Carey instead. We don't
understand the significance of the music my parents play at
the Saturday-night parties. To us, the singers sound ancient
and out of touch. We don't know that the music is pregnant
with the pain and suffering of our parents' generation. That
it's a soundtrack to their lives. When Sam Cooke cries, “A
change is gonna come,” or when Marvin Gaye asks, “What's
going on?” my parents and their friends lament their own
conditions. They complain about how “the government don't
give a fuck 'bout da niggas.” How it's all designed for them
to fail and how things “gotta get betta in da future. The
Lawd'a see to it.” I write it all down in my notebook,
including how sad they get when their old-people music
plays.
They don't just tell sad stories and complain about the
government, however. They also recount raucous tales from
when they were young. The first boy or girl they liked. Their
proms and school dances and how they was “the sharpest
looking one at da whole dance.” They remember all the
things their parents told them about how to live in the
world. “Man, my momma use'ta say don't neva give up, no
matta how hard life get. She use'ta say if there's a will,
there's a way. I shole do miss my momma, man.” Everyone
sits in silence for a moment to honor all those that “done
gone on home to da glory.” They smoke cigars and
cigarettes and talk about the good ol' days in the “hot-ass,
cotton-picking South,” which is what my father calls it and is
where most of them are from. They had no idea how hard
their lives would be in the North, about all the obstacles to
come. So they left the South in droves, headed north,
unstoppably north, before landing in Ohio, the Buckeye
State, nestled on the shores of the great Lake Erie.
My father calls it the Shotgun State and says, “Ain't
nothin' but hillbillies and honkies wit' big-ole shotguns soon
as you step foot anywhere outside a' Cleveland into one a'
dem yella co'nfields. Have you hopin' and prayin' one of 'em
don't decide to send yo black ass on home to da good Lawd
way befo' yo time. Show up at da pearly gates a' heav'n,
and da good Lawd'll tell ya you ain't 'spected fo anotha
thirty yeahs. ‘Not accordin' to dem white folks,' you tell 'im
wit' sorrow in yo eyes and pity in yo soul. And dat's when
you really realize dat da only thang standin' between you
and da good Lawd is a praya and da mercy of da white man.
But I guess it's always been dat way, ain't it?” Everyone at
the table nods in prodigious agreement.
I notice that they talk a lot about God and prayer during
their spades games; it's almost like a second church.
Everyone seems to believe in “da good Lawd,” except my
mother, who always tells them to “stop talkin' all dat
religion talk, 'cause God ain't comin' to save none of you
niggas.” But they don't listen to her.
Ms. Patty, who has a different wig for every occasion,
wears her Tina Turner wig to the spades games, and says
she stays in prayer “fo ev'rythang and er'body,” even
though she talks about “er'body and dey mama.”
“I still pray fo 'em afta I talk about 'em,” Ms. Patty says
while cackling to herself. Ms. Patty says she's received
everything she ever wanted thanks to the power of prayer.
“Well, Ms. Patty, you must be doin' somethin' right. How
many times you done hit the lottery?” Quincy, one of my
father's friends, asks.
“Don't worry about my money, nigga. Worry 'bout da
power of yo own prayers,” Ms. Patty shouts playfully,
drinking from her purple cup while everyone laughs in the
background.
Despite their prayers and all their talk about God, it does
not stop them from sinning, which is something else I write
down in my notebook—how often they say one thing but do
another. Pastor Aily, whom we only see in church on Sunday
mornings, says you are not supposed to curse, hit each
other, drink, do drugs, or go to bars, “which are the devil's
playgrounds,” but my parents and their friends do all those
things.
Pastor Aily says, “Da only reason God don't strike us all
down fo our sins is 'cause he's good and merciful. Anybody
can repent and beg for forgiveness for their sins.”
I want to believe Pastor Aily, but my mother says, “Ain't
no mercy here.” After what happened to her mother, which
she still refuses to tell us about, she stopped believing in
anything. I am only a kid, but I know you have to believe in
something to make sure you have a story in your head that
explains the world. There seem to be many things to believe
in, and I believe them all: God, the in-between, heaven, hell,
and the devil. So I have many stories in my head to explain
the world. I haven't conducted enough observations yet to
prove any of them wrong. I figure I better just believe in
them all in case they are all true.
After the adults finish talking about God and the good ol'
days at their spades game, someone turns the music up and
they start dancing and swaying and singing and clapping to
the beat. It is the happiest we ever see them. My brothers
and I watch from our secret hiding place on the side of the
couch. We tuck our heads beneath a blanket and peek in
amusement as the adults begin their wild spinning around
the room. They remind me of kindergarten when me and my
friends used to twirl on the magic carpet, but the adults
don't just spin, they also dance very close together, which
we were never allowed to do on the magic carpet. Soon, my
father, in his purple velvet suit and matching fedora with a
green feather on the side, and my mother, with her purple
silk dress that has a slit all the way up her leg, will be
dancing in the middle of the living room while their slow oldpeople music plays in the background. I don't know why, but
I feel funny inside watching them dance like this. So funny, I
cover Dre's and Rone's eyes so they don't see. My mother
melts her whole body into my father, as if he is a big tall
tree that will shelter and protect her forever. It's strange to
see them like this, especially since they are usually in chaos,
but I prefer this over their chaos.
Others slow-dance also or sit smoking cigars and
cigarettes, watching the slow dancers while blowing large
plumes of thick smoke up toward the ceiling. I watch it rise,
remembering the smoke from the night of the fire three
years ago. I look toward the window and watch as a bird,
just like on the night of the fire, lands on the windowsill,
crouches under the cracked window, and attempts to come
inside. I wonder if he is trying to grab some of the potato
chips that lie scattered on the table near the window.
Someone sees him and swats at him with a broom before he
has any chance to peck at the chips. I watch as he flies off
into the night sky, wondering where he is headed.
Soon after the bird leaves, the procession in and out of
the bathroom, where the adults kneel and pray to their
white rocks, starts. The next morning, on Sunday, they will
kneel in church and pray to their white God. I begin to
wonder if white is the color of things to be worshipped in
this world, if it is the only color to be worshipped in this
world.
Sunday mornings are my favorite part of the week because
my mother cooks her famous before-church breakfast of
eggs, grits, biscuits, sausage, pancakes, and bacon.
Everyone trickles in slowly to indulge in this before-church
feast. First, Ms. Patty will come stumbling in with her purple
cup and her church wig. This wig is short, black, and styled
in a pixie cut. It is very different from her Tina Turner–styled
wig. She says she “don't wanna look like no Jezebel in da
house of da Lawd.” Sometimes Jessie, Davante, or Tiffany
come for breakfast with their parents and siblings. If they
come, we chase one another all around the apartment
playing hide-and-seek or tag. We play until one of our
parents tells us to quit making all that noise.
Next, Ms. Jannie, a close family friend who is like our
grandmother, will come busting through the door with her
three grown, lazy adult kids and two of her grandchildren,
all of whom live with Ms. Jannie in her three-bedroom house
down the street. If it's winter, like it is now, Ms. Jannie will
wear her big brown fur coat made of coyote that she says
her “daddy hunted and killed his self when we was down in
Alabamy.” Then she will take up all the space and oxygen in
the room to tell us all about Jesus and how he saved her and
how she “don't pa'ticipate in Saturday-night parties no mo,
'cause I done let all dat sinning go.” She continues, “Yes,
Lawd. I done seen da light, and da light is da man upstairs,
Mr. Jesus Christ! You betta get right if you ain't, 'cause da
rapture is a-comin'! You heah me?! Dis worl' gon' end befo'
not too long.” My mother will tell Ms. Jannie to save the
preaching for church and just enjoy the food. I look up at the
picture of Mr. Jesus Christ, who hangs over the stove now
and not in the living room anymore. He always looks sad,
with his hands resting in prayer in front of his chest and his
eyes rolled up toward the heavens. I sometimes talk to him
when I'm alone in the kitchen. I ask him what he thinks
about our unruly family and what he thinks about people
constantly praising him or constantly calling out his full
name. Does it make him feel good even though he's no
longer here? I wish more people would call me by my full
name, Echo Unique Ladadrian Brown, instead of calling me
“chile,” “girl,” or “Bébé's kid.”
As the Sunday-morning breakfast rolls on, usually my
father, who is always the last one up, will come shuffling
into the kitchen still wearing one of his colorful velvet suits
from the night before and say, “A'ight, Ms. Jannie, you got
it,” in recognition of Ms. Jannie's standing in the community.
“How you feelin' dis mornin'?” he'll ask. Ms. Jannie responds
that she's feeling better than how he looks. “Lookin' like you
done been run ova by a truck dis mornin', Ed.” She will ask
him when he will be ready to give up sinning and get right
with Jesus Christ. My father will smile to himself, give her a
hug, and change the subject by commenting on the
excellence of the food. “Dis bre'fast shole do look good dis
mornin', Aprah. Thank you, darlin'.” My mother's name is
April, but everyone calls her Aprah. My father will then give
my mother a kiss on the cheek, shifting the focus entirely
away from his sinning. None of that happens this morning,
however, because my father is not home. He left at eight,
and none of us know where he went.
After my mother finishes cooking breakfast, Ms. Jannie,
the most righteous among us, will lead us in prayer before
we can eat. I hate when she starts her praying, because we
never know how long it will last and I can smell the bacon
the entire time. I peek out from underneath my eyelids to
see if it looks like she's almost done, but she just keeps
going and going and going, like the Energizer Bunny. She
never runs out of words for her Lord. I mark that down in my
observation notebook—how the adults always seem to have
endless words in every situation, even when more words are
not needed. Ms. Jannie continues with her never-ending
prayer for what feels like forever. When I hear the word
“finally,” I know she's almost done. “And finally, Lawd,
watch ova us. Clean us, Lawd. So many of us done gone
astray. Bring us back in yo favor and grace. Bring us back.
Tho we know da end of times may be upon us, restore all
those who suffer ta health and good fortune. In yo name I
pray, amen.”
We all rise as if on cue and eat our breakfast, which has
almost gone cold. After we finish breakfast, we prepare to
leave for church. Right as we are about to walk out the door,
my father comes stumbling in drunk and shooting his cussword sentences everywhere.
“Goddammit, hell naw! Ain't nobody goin' no goddamn,
motherfuckin' goddamn where! I got somethin' ta say.” My
mother immediately bristles and puts up her shell, but not
her normal shell. Her combat shell, which means she is
preparing to fight. My brothers and I are surprised since she
never puts up her combat shell in front of righteous people
like Ms. Jannie, but my mother has been on edge all
morning. She has been nervous, agitated, and jittery. I
wonder if it's because of what happened last night. I wonder
if she has not fully returned to her normal self or if she is
still stuck in the other realm,
where the procession in and out of the bathroom has
finally concluded. Eventually, my mother gets up again and
starts dancing in the middle of the room, alone this time.
Someone puts on Marvin, her favorite, and dims the lights.
She starts off slowly, winding and twisting her hips, pulling
at the edges of her purple dress until it rides up her thighs
and threatens to reveal the very round behind it is
struggling to cover.
Everyone in the room is mostly quiet now. The bottles of
Colt 45 are empty. The cards lie strewn about the table,
some wrinkled, some folded. Two people are passed out on
the couch. Another on the floor. My brothers and I are falling
asleep but have managed to sit undetected in the corner of
the room beside the couch the whole night. Two of my
mother's friends see us at one point, but instead of giving
up our secret location, they smile and sneak us a few pieces
of candy and potato chips. We are supposed to be sleeping,
and would get a whooping if our parents knew we were
watching, so we are grateful for the candy-gifting mercy of
my mother's friends.
My father and his friends watch my mother dance alone in
the middle of the room while they take long, slow drawls
from their cigars and cigarettes. Quincy leans over and tells
my father, “You sho got yo'self a good woman. A damn good
woman.” My father nods and marvels at the sight of her.
They focus all the attention in their brains on her body. None
of them see
my mother grab a knife from the kitchen drawer suddenly
and press it into my father's neck. Ms. Jannie recoils in
shock and cries out, “Aprah! Now, come on, Aprah! Put dat
knife down! Come on, Aprah, now! You don't wanna do this!
Trust me, Aprah, I knows! You don't wanna do dis!” Ms.
Jannie gathers all the kids in her big arms covered in coyote
fur and pushes us behind her. Ms. Patty, who has a fear in
her eyes I've never seen, runs to stand behind Ms. Jannie
also, purple cup still securely in hand. I peek anxiously
between Ms. Jannie's arms and legs at the events unfolding.
Ms. Patty repeats everything Ms. Jannie says out of the
shock of not knowing what else to do. “Our father who art in
heaven. Hallow' be thy name. Stop huh, Lawd. Stop huh!”
Ms. Jannie prays loudly and Ms. Patty repeats.
I watch my father's skin fold and stretch unnaturally
around the point of the knife. I watch the blood furtively slip
out and run down the blade. First in drops, but eventually
the drops combine to form a small red stream. “Ask him
where he went last night afta da party, Ms. Jannie!” my
mother shouts, enraged. “Ask 'im who he was wit'! I swear
dese niggas is all da same. Ain't worth da spit on da bottom
of yo goddamn shoe. You ain't shit, nigga, and ain't no
reason why I shouldn't send yo black ass to meet yo maka
right now. You know what I'm talkin' 'bout! You know exactly
what
“I'm talkin' 'bout. C'mon, baby … Let's get it on,” Marvin
croons in the background. My brothers have fallen asleep,
but I, like my father and his friends, can't stop watching. My
mother is mesmerizing. She moves in perfect sync with
Marvin's words. Her body glows brighter than anything else
in the room, even the candles, which suddenly begin to
flicker as if someone is trying to blow them out.
Marvin is on repeat. “Let's Get It On” starts again, but this
time Marvin sounds like he is singing in slow motion. I look
at my father to see if he notices. I wonder if it is my
imagination, if I'm just sleepy, but Marvin slows down even
more. His words become stretched out, and it sounds like he
has a mouthful of cotton: “T h e r e ' s n o t h i n g w r o n g
w i t h m e l o v i n g y o u…” I am afraid and astonished. I
wake my brothers up. I want to know if they hear, but when
I tell them the music is playing in slow motion, they rub
their eyes in confusion. “Listen,” I tell them. “Listen!” They
look at me as if they don't understand. I sit up at full alert
watching my mother
as she twists the knife farther into my father's throat and
again demands he tell us what he did last night. “Tell 'em
how much of a no-good dog you is, Ed! Where was you last
night, huh? Afta da party?! Speak up, nigga! You ain't neva
been quiet befo'! Tell 'em! Den we'a get on ta church and
get ta prayin' and shoutin' and repentin' sins we gon' repeat
soon as we step foot outside dat church. Now, go on 'head,
nigga! Confess yo sins!” Everybody in the room
begins to move in slow motion, including my father and
his friends, until they freeze in space and time. My father's
fingers are wrapped, unmoving, around the cigar in his
mouth. I start to wonder if they are still breathing. I
suddenly look to see that Dre and Rone are also freezing. I
become terrified at the sight of my frozen brothers. I try to
shake them, but their bodies are stiff and their eyes stare,
glazed and unmoving straight ahead. Just like the night of
the fire, time begins to wind itself down. My mother starts
chanting something I've never heard before—“Habercito
nyucatana sumacsinchi machainini … Cielo, cielo”—and
crying out, “I'm so sorry, Mama! I'm so sorry! I didn't know,
Mama! I didn't know! I'd take it all back if I could, trade
myself fo you. I tole you I ain't want no girl chile, 'cause I
know'd. I know'd she was gon' be one, too, but it don't do
none a' us no good to be what we is. I don't want dat fo huh,
Mama! I don't want it!” my mother cries out in distress. I
look to see whom she is talking to, but everyone in the room
is frozen except her and me.
Suddenly, she looks over toward me as if she is looking
directly at me, but it's almost as though she is looking past
me, way past me. I am still covered by the blanket, but I feel
like she can see me. Her head starts to roll slowly up toward
the ceiling. I follow her gaze and am shocked that the ceiling
seems to have dissolved. I stare in disbelief at the dark
space above. I've never seen anything like it. There are
dazzling, shimmering specks of light that rain down
periodically, stopping just at the top of the room, and there
are puffy colorful clouds that float slowly across the space. I
also hear some kind of noise that sounds like a thousand
people humming quietly in the background.
I stare up, way up, the way I do when I'm conducting my
observations outside, but I don't understand what I'm
looking at. I'm completely hypnotized by the colors and the
light. I try to turn my head and look back over at my
mother, but I can't move my head or close my eyes. I see
the specks of light start to wrap around one another,
spiraling and spiraling until they form a light beam that
streaks across the dark space and then down directly into
my forehead. I feel a small jolt, as if something has been
downloaded into my brain. There are no thoughts in my
head. I am blank, like an empty piece of paper. Until a single
thought comes: Mrs. Samuels was wrong. Suddenly, a flood
of other thoughts pours into my brain and my whole head is
full of words, too many words, like Ms. Jannie's never-ending
prayers. Words that I don't completely understand wash
over me: Your mother is a wizard. So are you. She can open
a portal to the in-between, like the one you saw just now,
when she's high on the white rocks. She does it to try to
contact her mother. She doesn't want to be a wizard,
because of what happened, what she did to her mother.
You'll come to know what happened when the time is right.
For now, don't worry. She will be a very difficult mother, but
she loves you and your brothers more than life itself. You
and they are her single purpose here. You cannot make
miracles yet. Not until you realize the unbreakable. Don't
worry, for now you'll forget all of this. Just keep watch for
the birds: they are messengers. Keep watch.
The third lesson of wizard training is that the in-between
cannot be found or discovered. Instead, it reveals itself to
unsuspecting wizards. It cannot be hoped, prayed, or called
for the first time. You can only wait for the portal to finally
open. Then, after first contact, you can grow to reach it at
will. A wizard's path through life is greatly impacted by their
relationship with the in-between, whether they choose to
run from its immense power or whether they learn to
cultivate it to better navigate the future. Each choice has
consequences that ripple, ultimately determining if they will
become a broken wizard or an enlightened one.
The spiral of light retracts, and when I open my eyes I see
that the ceiling has returned but everyone else is still
frozen. I look back over at my mother in confusion, but she
is still looking past me. I try to remember all the words that
were just in my head, but they're falling out. I open my
notebook to write down some of them before they're all
gone. All I can remember is birds. I write it down and notice
that my brothers, my father, and my parents' friends start
slowly moving again, but my mother still looks suspended in
the other realm. Her eyes are dull and glazed over, but the
rest of her is glowing. All the light in the room bends toward
her. She looks ethereal, like she is possessed
with fury and rage. The knife presses so deeply into my
father's throat, I'm afraid she will pierce his windpipe.
Suddenly, she drops the knife, which hits the floor with a
disturbing thunk. We all watch as she whispers in my
father's ear loud enough for everyone to hear, “If you eva
go near dat bitch again, I'a kill you. I'a kill you dead, nigga.
Afta ev'rythang I done fo you and dis family.” She then looks
sharply at Ms. Jannie and Ms. Patty and tells them to “stop
all dat cryin' and prayin'. Wasn't y'all's prayin' or y'all's
white Jesus dat saved dat nigga's life. It was dem kids and
only dem kids. Now, let's get ta goin' befo' we miss da
mornin' service.”
LESSON 4
Stopping the Time
Pastor Aily preaches about the importance of fighting evil
spirits in the morning service, but I barely hear anything he
says. I'm too busy staring at Jessie, who sits on the side of
the church with his mother and father. Jessie and I are both
twelve years old now, but something about him has
changed. He is no longer just a curly-haired kid who I've
made fun of since we were in kindergarten. Now he towers
over me, his voice has deepened, and his body has spread
out in all the right directions. He is stunning. He looks like
those models I always see in Calvin Klein commercials, with
perfect eyes, hair, and lips. I think about kissing him all the
time, like I see the girls do in all my favorite shows. But I'm
not D.J. Tanner with pretty blond hair from Full House, or
Laura Winslow with flawless skin from Family Matters, or
Brandy with effortless popularity from Moesha. I like D.J. and
Laura, but I'm obsessed with Brandy. She's the only black
girl I ever see on TV who looks kind of like me. Hopefully
Jessie thinks I look like her, too, instead of the beast I feel
like I'm turning into. I have already figured out that my dark
skin and nappy hair, which is chemically relaxed now,
means I'm ugly. Not just regular ugly, but beastly.
Untouchable. I have started to feel bad about the way I look,
like very sad inside. I desperately wish I looked different. But
even if I did, it wouldn't matter because Tiffany is still telling
everyone that Jessie is her boyfriend. He always denies it,
but it doesn't stop her from claiming him. I'm afraid of
Tiffany, even though we still hang out sometimes. She is
turning into a bully who takes what she wants. I don't want
her to come after me, so I try to push Jessie out of my mind.
But no matter what I do, I can't stop thinking about how
much I want to press my lips on Jessie's.
After the service, everyone gathers on the front lawn of
the church to release black balloons that have prayers and
blessing cards inside. The prayers are supposed to float to
people who need the blessings the most and in the process
ward off evil spirits that may be surrounding them. It's a
ceremony to celebrate Easter and the rising of our Lord and
Savior, Jesus Christ. The balloons rise as Jesus did, with
blessings and wisdom for anyone lucky enough to find one.
I grab two of the balloons, which are all loosely tied to a
rail on the side lawn of the church, and hold them while
waiting for the ceremony to begin. The balloons were
supposed to be pink and white, but Davante's Black Panther
parents bought all black balloons despite Pastor Aily's
wishes. They stand to the far left, holding black balloons and
smiling mischievously in their black clothes and sunglasses.
They look like characters from a horror movie set in the
hood. I look over at Davante, who holds his head down in
embarrassment, and shake my head playfully at him when
he finally looks up.
Pastor Aily begins reading from a small red book that has
the words TIMELESS CHRISTIAN WISDOM written along the spine:
“‘And so, as a man soweth the seeds in the Earth, so he
must sow the seeds of light in his own heart to prevent
darkness from washing over him, and he must submerge
himself in the holiest of waters to ensure his safe passage
into the Kingdom of Heaven.'” I scan the crowd and see my
mother by the rail, holding a black balloon while staring
ahead blankly and smoking a cigarette. Per usual, she looks
irritated with the pomp and circumstance of church rituals.
My brothers, who are both bored, begin shadowboxing some
of the balloons. Tiffany keeps trying to grab Jessie's hand,
but he swats her away and comes to stand next to me. Ms.
Patty, Ms. Jannie, and my father all stare obediently at
Pastor Aily, nodding in prodigious agreement at everything
he says. Pastor Aily finishes reading and shouts, “Rejoice!”
We release our balloons and watch as they float up around
the church. I stare up and watch as the smattering of black
balloons scatter across the big, open blue sky. Everyone
starts clapping and talking as the balloons float away.
I look up one more time and am surprised to see that one
balloon is still lingering right above me. I suddenly feel
paralyzed and very heavy, like my body weighs a thousand
pounds. And I have a sinking feeling in my stomach, like
everything is all wrong. I try to yell for others to look up at
the lingering balloon, but it's hard for me to get my words
out. “Hey!” I say, pinned in place and pointing to the sky in
confusion. “Hey, look! That balloon isn't floating away!” A
few people standing near me look up but don't see
anything. One of them replies, “All da balloons is gone, girl.
What's wrong wit' you?” My mother sees me standing there,
pointing and frozen, and comes running across the church
lawn toward me. She pulls my arm down and says, “Dat
ain't no balloon. Now, be quiet! Don't look at it. Jus' hush
up, you heah me? Hush!”
I look back up and realize she is right. It isn't a balloon. I
keep staring and see that it looks like a black piece of thick
lace fabric flying in the wind, or a spinning black Frisbee. As
soon as I look back at it, I become paralyzed and transfixed
again. “Why nobody else don't see it?” I ask my mother in
confusion, even though she has told me to hush.
“Ain't nothin' dere, okay? You don't see nothin,' you heah
me? Now, go on up to da field wit Jessie and yo brothas and
dem, and play kickball or sumthin'. Don't worry 'bout dis. I'a
see y'all when you get home lata.”
I try to ask her more questions, but she dismissively
waves me away, turns her back, and starts talking to Ms.
Patty and Ms. Jannie.
Jessie suddenly grabs my hand, jerking me along as we
both run toward the field. Tiffany, Dre, Rone, and Davante
chase after us. We all stop at home first to change clothes,
and then meet at the penny candy store, where we buy an
assortment of Jolly Ranchers, Tootsie Rolls, bubble gum,
lollipops, and gummy bears. We stuff the candy in our
pockets and continue running until we reach the big open
field near the train tracks.
Once we get there, we sprawl out in the prickly dead
grass and begin spiraling our prayers. I don't know if our
prayers vibrate the quantum field like my mother's do, but
we spiral prayers anyways for all kinds of things, including
new cars, new clothes, more money, and bigger houses. We
each claim cars as they drive up and down the street.
“That's my car,” Rone shouts at a shiny red Cadillac slowly
cruising down the street, blasting “Gin and Juice” by Snoop
Dogg. “I'm going to LA when I grow up and  buy a big
house by the ocean,” Rone says confidently. “And  be
the best rapper alive, just like Tupac. And,” he continues,
“ be a pilot.”
“A rapper-pilot? Nigga, dat's dope,” Jessie chimes in while
fist-bumping Rone.
I ask Rone where he will get the money to do all that. He
says he doesn't know, but he's going to park his plane right
in his driveway. I tell him I don't think you can park planes in
a driveway.
“Where you park 'em, den?” he asks.
“At the airport, I guess.”
Outside the unrelenting gaze of our parents, the field is
the only place where we feel free to dream and talk about
whatever we want. There used to be an old textile factory
here before they tore it down. Now there's only the vast,
empty field enclosed by a rusted fence with several gaping
holes, which we crawl through to enter. I wish there were
some trees to help shield us from the sun, but there aren't,
so on hot summer days we bake like potato chips. There are
no trees, but there is tons of trash scattered all across the
field, including broken bottles, crack needles, and bags full
of dirty old clothes and random objects that someone has
thrown out. We search through the bags to see if we can
find anything valuable. We never do. It's all worthless stuff
that nobody wants, including us.
After we are done spiraling prayers and looking through
discarded items (and there are new items every week), we
start asking each other all the questions we can think of:
How many black people you think is in the world? “Like
eight billion, I guess.” Who you like more: Tupac or Biggie
Smalls? “Man, definitely Tupac. He da best dat eva did it.”
What you think da aliens be doin' up dere all day? “Shit,
chillin', watchin' space TV, or some shit like dat, I guess.”
Where you think we goin' when we die? “To heaven.” What
you think people be doin' ova in da otha countries? “I'on'
know, but I hope I get to go to another country one day.”
On some days, like today, we gather up all the stray dogs
in the neighborhood after we leave the penny candy store
and go searching through garbage pails on the sides of
people's houses for scraps of food. Right now, there are only
nine stray dogs in our neighborhood. There were thirteen
two months ago, but we don't know what happened to the
other four. When there aren't many scraps in the garbage
pails, we collect discarded pop cans and pieces of scrap
metal that we find scattered around the neighborhood and
take them to the scrapyard down the street. The scrap man,
named Mr. Jimmie James, is always dressed in a navy-blue
jumpsuit and has a half-smoked cigar hanging out of his
mouth. Whenever he sees us coming, he always says, “Here
comes Bébé's kids and da little Mexican boy.”
Even though everyone knows Jessie is mixed with black
and white, people still regularly call him the little Mexican,
little Hispanic, or little Indian boy to highlight the racial
ambiguity of his features. Davante, who is secretly jealous
of Jessie's light skin and curly hair and all the attention he
constantly receives, despite his Black Panther upbringing,
always teases Jessie for “not being a real black person.”
Davante's parents have convinced him that light-skinned
people are not “real” black people. Davante and Jessie
constantly get in arguments that mostly center around
Davante questioning Jessie's blackness:
“What you know about rap music, boy? Light-skinned
niggas cain't undastand or relate to da music of da
struggle.”
“Nigga, er'body always complimentin' you, which means
you on' know how hard life really is.”
“Man, if I looked like you or at least had good hair, bet my
life would be ten times better than it is right now. Prolly
wouldn't be stopped by da cops all da time, even though I
ain't doin' nothin' wrong. Prolly wouldn't have my teachers
tryna put me in special ed all da time. And prolly would be
in the Gifted and Talented Program wit' you and Echo.”
Davante's questioning of Jessie pushes him to the edge,
and he finally snaps one day, aggressively barking at
Davante, “Nigga, fuck you! I'm jus' as black as you! Bet you
I'm black where it counts, nigga!” Jessie points to his pants
and everyone laughs, but I can tell he is really upset, more
upset than usual.
And I can tell Jessie is really upset when he responds to
Mr. Jimmie James, “I ain't Mexican, Mr. Jimmie, and I don't
speak no Spanish. No hablo español, okay?” he says in
frustration.
“Sounds like español ta me, José,” Mr. Jimmie James says
mockingly, further irritating Jessie. He then pats each one of
us on the head, including Jessie, and asks if we are doing
well in school. “Y'all betta stay in school so y'all don't end
up in a scrapyard like me. Ecka and da lil Mexican boy is ova
dere at dat white school, so I know they gon' be jus' fine.
I'on' know about the rest of y'all lil Negroes. Betta say yo
prayers, 'cause you cain't make it nowhere in dis world
witout dem honkies,” he says, laughing wryly to himself.
When he notices the looks of disappointment on Davante's,
Tiffany's, Dre's, and Rone's faces, he quickly changes his
tone and tries to smooth over the low expectations buried in
his words. “Hey, anythang is possible, right? Jus' keep
believin' in yo'self, and it'll all work out. Jimmie believe in
ya. Jimmie luv da kids.” But the damage has been done. The
seed has been planted, and I watch as it takes root in their
minds. I watch as it sinks in that, somehow, we are not all
on the same path. Somehow, though we started in the same
place, we are heading in different directions.
Rone and Dre are only eleven and ten, but they are
already falling apart and starting to spin the same webs of
chaos as our parents. They regularly get into fights, skip
school, and smoke cigarettes. They are both in the special
education program for kids with learning disabilities at the
black school on the East Side, which is one of the worst
schools in the district. It's run-down and looks like an old
factory or juvenile detention center, which it probably was
at one point. The black school doesn't have new books or
computers like my school, nor does it have enough
teachers, so there are usually thirty to forty students per
class. The mayor says, “That school is a disaster that needs
to be repaired and restored immediately, but the city is
broke and who pays the price for an inadequate education?
You guessed it, the students.”
I try to think of ways to get Dre and Rone to follow me, to
understand that what they do now will affect the trajectory
of their lives, but they cannot seem to connect their current
actions to their future realities. I don't understand
everything, either, but I know there will come a time when
we are all adults, when I won't recognize them. When their
self-destruction will conclude in tragedy. I can't yet imagine
the pain that will befall my brothers: the long stints in
prison, addiction to the white rocks, schizophrenia, intense
bouts of depression, and suicide attempts. I still have hope
that something will come along and return things to how
they used to be when we didn't understand the brutality of
the conditions around us.
I think about how just two or three years ago, we all were
still innocent. We created whole worlds in our imaginations
out of everything we found. We held hands and sang
together while walking down the street, usually singing
along to “Billie Jean” or the theme song from Fresh Prince of
Bel-Air. We were free. We were unlimited. We didn't yet
know or understand race and class and all the intersections
between them, so we were not yet black, at least not on the
inside. Our psyches were still free from the troubles of the
world. We reached our tiny hands up toward the sky, trying
to imagine what was up there, beyond the blue part. “Where
you think we go when we die?” we asked each other
curiously. “You think we go up there? You think we turn into
aliens?” We dissolved into the sky and all the mystery it
hides.
But it's not like that anymore. We are not like that
anymore. My brothers are no longer children, and they're
already trapped in a school system that is failing them, just
like the mayor says.
In contrast, the white school on the West Side has stateof-the-art facilities, all the books you could ever want to
read, a pool, and the best playground in the district. I wish
we could all go to the white school. I glance over at Rone,
Dre, Jessie, Tiffany, and Davante laughing hysterically while
bouncing up the sidewalk, with the nine stray dogs following
closely behind. I'm sad that one day it won't be like this.
When we get older, we'll all be in different places.
We use the ten dollars Mr. Jimmie James gives us to buy
two large bags of dog kibble. We walk the kibble and the
nine dogs several blocks to the open field. Ms. Patty,
watching from her porch, says we look like “the little blackass cousins of Shaka Zulu walking all dem damn dogs up
and down the street like dat.” She says we belong on an
African prairie or in the jungle somewhere with the rest of
the wild, badass kids. We don't care what she says. We
know it is our duty to look after these dogs. Otherwise they
might all starve to death and that would be terrible.
When we get to the field, we pour both bags of dog food
into the grass and watch the dogs gobble and gobble until
it's all gone. By the time the sun starts going down, none of
us want to leave the field. We know we have to be home
before dark, but we linger until the last drop of light leaves
the sky. The dogs scurry and roll around, gobbling up any
remaining kibbles that lie scattered in the grass.
Jessie and I are standing in a small wooden shack,
watching the sun go down, as Tiffany, Davante, and my
brothers play fetch with the dogs. The shack used to be
some kind of watch post for the old textile factory. All the
windows have been busted out and the wood is
deteriorated. There are beer cans, used condoms, and crack
needles strewn about on the floor. We kick the needles out
of the way and lean against one of the walls. I watch as the
sun starts to make its final descent, just behind the bridge. I
think about the black Frisbee thing I saw in the sky earlier
and try to avoid looking at Jessie since we are standing
shoulder to shoulder right next to each other. I feel awkward
and tingly inside standing so close to him.
I am very aware of his body, which I have been watching
all day. He is wearing a sleeveless white undershirt, and I
enjoy watching his muscles flex every time he moves. I
continue staring out of the busted window frames while
shifting my shoulders nervously from side to side. Jessie
seems nervous also and joins me in staring out the window.
“Hey, what you was pointin' at dis mornin' at da church? I
seen you pointin', but ain't see nothin' up in da sky.”
I look over at Jessie and say, “I don't really know what it
was, but it wasn't no balloon.”
Jessie turns his body toward me and says, “Hmph, maybe
it was a bird or sum'in' like dat.”
As soon as he says the word “bird” I am transported,
sucked back in time. Words that I don't recognize start
rolling through my mind: Your mother is a wizard and so are
you. Keep watch and start your miracles. Your mother can't
help right now. She will remain difficult until she rectifies the
past. Beware of her rage. A wizard with unresolved rage will
keep unleashing terror
    into our tiny bodies. I wonder what could make a person
this angry. All we did was try to get rid of the roaches, which
are taking over the apartment, and now my mother and
father are whooping us like slaves on the TV show Roots. My
mother raises and lands the belt decisively against our bare
arms and legs several times. Then she gives the belt to my
father, who does not hit us as hard as my mother does,
even though he's stronger than her. It's an act of mercy on
his part. They take turns hitting us with the belt, and while
one whoops, the other smokes a cigarette. This whooping is
worse than usual because we accidentally set the carpet in
our bedroom on fire while trying to burn the roaches. Both
our parents come running when they smell smoke. It
reminds them of that night, the night they almost let their
three children burn to death. My father throws one of the
blankets over the fire and stomps it out. My mother says in
the calmest, coolest voice, “Go get a belt,” and then the
whooping starts.
Rone and I have learned how to put our shells up
immediately when a whooping starts. We shut down our
emotions like we have been taught. I try to think about
happy memories like Christmas three years ago when we
got all the presents we wanted, thanks again to our
mother's miracles. I picture her walking through the door
with a bagful of gifts. We squeal and scream like we have
just won cars on Oprah's TV show. “You get a present! And
you get a present! And you get a present! Everybody gets a
present!” Dre, Rone, and I jump around in a circle, smiling
and giggling, giddy with a glee that only young children feel.
We haven't had a Christmas like that since then. Now our
parents spend all their money on Colt 45s and the white
rocks. Instead of presents, for the past two years they have
hung white envelopes, each containing a crisp one-dollar
bill, on the Christmas tree. They can't bear to watch us open
the envelopes, so we open them in our rooms. Before we
open the envelopes, we spiral prayers and hope there is at
least fifty or a hundred dollars in the envelope, not a dollar,
but it's always just a dollar.
I can feel blood running down my legs now. I guess the
skin has finally broken. The goal is not to break our skin, but
to break our shells, shells they have taught us to build. It's a
wicked kind of irony. The longer we keep our shells up, the
longer they whoop us, until they finally break us. But I am
determined not to break this time.
Dre is watching and crying already. He knows he will be
next. But he is so soft. His eyes and heart are always so
soft, begging for love. He is still too young. He hasn't
learned how to build a good shell yet. So it is especially
cruel to watch him get a whooping. His is always the
shortest. My father can never give him more than five or six
lashes. I wonder why they can't see how they are destroying
him. He is so soft. The damage will never be repaired. They
are trying to make him strong. Prepare him for the
whoopings the world will give him, but they are destroying
him, too. I spiral prayers for Dre, that he might be spared. I
keep my shell up for as long as I can to absorb most of the
impact of their rage for his sake. I turn away from his
sobbing face and instead think of all the times I've seen him
smiling, laughing, running
in wide, gaping circles around the shack where Jessie and
I are now pressed firmly against each other. Tiffany, Rone,
and Davante all join Dre playing while the dogs wallow in
the dry, brittle grass. I try not to look into Jessie's eyes out
of fear he will see the beast inside me and run away. The
highlights of his skin are illuminated by the setting sun,
making him glow like a high-yellow Mexican god. The entire
scene reminds me of an impressionist painting, which we
learn about in school: warm, alive, and colorful. I could have
stood there silently in Jessie's arms forever, but he suddenly
starts speaking.
“Maybe it was God dat you saw up dere in da sky earlier
today? Maybe God is black like Davante parents be sayin'.”
I don't respond. I am mesmerized by the Vincent van
Gogh moment unfolding around us and still thinking about
the words that were just rolling through my mind. Your
mother is a wizard and so are you. Keep watch and start
your miracles. What does it mean? Why am I suddenly
receiving messages?
Jessie interrupts my train of thought and asks, “Why you
get quiet all of a sudden? What you thinkin' 'bout?”
I don't want him to think I'm a freak, so I smile nervously
while trying to think of something to say. I open my mouth
to speak, but I'm so overwhelmed, no words come out. I'm
embarrassed and want to go home and hide in my room,
but Jessie keeps holding me tightly. “It's cool. Girls be quiet
sometime. My mother and sister be like dat, where dey jus'
stop talkin', like for hours. I'on' be knowin' what to do, so I
just leave 'em alone till dey start talkin' again. Y'all girls be
confusin' sometimes.” Jessie laughs to himself.
I smile, but feel increasingly awkward. When I still don't
say anything, Jessie starts speaking again, but in a much
softer voice.
“Ey, you know what I was thinkin' 'bout da otha day?
'Bout how when we was kids, we use'ta spin around on dat
magic carpet and make all dem wishes. Man, ain't hardly
none a' my wishes came true, doe. I'm still in da same
house, ain't got no money, and my momma and daddy still
fightin' all da time … I be wishin' life could be like it was
den, befo' all da pain and stuff started, you know? Like when
we still believed in magic and Santa Claus and da tooth fairy
and dat magic carpet … Mrs. Jackson-Randolph knew all dat
stuff about magic wasn't true, but she still made us believe
in it. I be missin' her sometimes … You know what else I
use'ta wish for, doe, on dat magic carpet?”
Jessie whispers to me in a barely audible voice. He is
pressed so firmly against me, I can smell the Laffy Taffy and
Jolly Rancher on his breath. There is so much conflicting
energy coursing through my body, I feel like I'm going to
explode. I want to scream with joy, fear, and confusion, but I
manage to contain myself.
My shell drops partially and I soften. I am glowing. I know
Jessie can see it, because he starts smiling. I have never
been looked at like this before. It is the most intense,
amazing, warm, enveloping smile I've ever seen. I look
down. I look around. I look at my brothers. I look anywhere
to try to avoid the radiance of his smile. I feel exposed. I
haven't been exposed in so long. I try to put my shell back
up, but I am increasingly disarmed. I like how it feels to be
disarmed, how it feels to touch another human. I realize the
paradox of the shell: that it keeps out all the bad stuff, but it
also keeps out all the good stuff. Jessie drops his shell also
and I notice he looks different now. Softer. Warmer. But also
on fire. He is burning somehow, and I am overcome by the
heat.
“When we was kids, on dat magic carpet, I use'ta wish
dat I could kiss you,” he says finally after just staring and
smiling at me.
My shell
shatters totally and I start screaming at the top of my
lungs for them to “stop it! Stop it, please! We won't burn
any more roaches!”
Rone, who always follows me, joins in and begins
screaming at our parents to stop whooping Dre. All three of
us are crying now. Rone and I pull Dre away from our
parents and throw our bodies around him. We transform
ourselves into a titanium shelter and absorb all the blows on
our backs. Rone and I don't care about our pain anymore,
but we cannot watch the decimation of our little brother any
longer. Now I understand what Mr. Casey meant when he
said, “Children are the bravest of all.” We would have died,
Rone and me, to save Dre. Our parents realize this. They see
that we have grown in power, that they can't break us like
they used to. I am unbreakable, I think to myself. I am
unbreakable, I repeat over and over, until suddenly, just like
on the night of the spades game, time starts to slow down. I
watch as my father's arm moves slower and slower until it is
suspended in midair, belt in hand. Dre and Rone, who are
both pinned underneath me, stop squirming and freeze.
Only my mother and I are not frozen.
I stand up, with tears running down my face and my shirt
stained with blood, and ask her what's happening.
My mother looks panicked and starts saying, “Aw no, no,
no! Ecka, you got to turn away from dis. It don't brang
nothin' but trouble.”
I look at my mother in confusion and ask her what she's
talking about. She drops to her knees and grabs the sides of
my arms and starts shaking me. I've never seen such a look
of desperation in my mother's eyes. They bulge out of their
sockets, and all the blood vessels swell and pop. I feel
myself grow increasingly afraid.
“Listen, baby, you stopped da time just now. You just
didn't know it. It happn'd 'cause you done realized the
unbreakable, that you cain't be broken, no matter what. It's
da first thang dat happens when you ready ta become a
wizard. Dat, and you start seein' thangs otha people don't
see, like dat thang you saw in da sky da otha day, da black
veil. Dat veil start comin' 'round when you start to feel bad
inside. I'on' know why ya feelin' like dat, but we got to fix it
and get rid of it. But listen to me: You ain't gon' be no
wizard! You heah me? Don't nothin' but bad thangs happ'n
when dat kinda power get inside ya. It can make you do
thangs you don't wanna do. Dat's how I ended up hurtin' my
mama. Dat's how I ended up killin' huh. I killed huh! You
hear me?! I killed huh! I didn't mean to, but I did, and it
done ruined me and I don't want you to be ruined, okay,
baby? Jus' trust me. You got ta turn away from dis.” The
time starts unfreezing, and she starts speaking faster, so
fast she stumbles over her words.
I stare directly into my mother's despairing, bulging eyes
in disbelief. “You killed your own mother?” I say slowly. “But
why would you do somethin' like dat?”
I wait for an answer, but she closes her eyes and stops
speaking.
The fourth lesson of wizard training is learning to stop the
time. Once a wizard realizes they are unbreakable, their
ability to perform miracles is unlocked. The first step to
performing a miracle is stopping the time, since all miracles
occur outside of space and time—in another realm of reality.
Miracles happen in this world, but they originate in the inbetween, like how rain is made in the clouds before
eventually falling to the earth.
My father, Dre, and Rone all unfreeze. Dre and Rone start
squirming and wincing, until they realize they are no longer
being hit. My father asks my mother, who is still on her
knees with her eyes closed, what's she doing down on the
floor. “Put dat belt down,” my mother responds. “It's
finished. It done started. Lawd, it done started and we
brought it down on huh.” My father looks at my mother in
confusion. Only I know what she's talking about. We all get
up off the floor. My brothers wipe the tears off their cheeks
and
start running closer to the shack, screaming at the top of
their lungs: “Jessie and Echo sitting in a shack. K-I-S-S-I-NG.” They laugh out loud and run in circles around us. Tiffany,
who is not laughing but scowling, starts throwing rocks at
the shack. I can see the glowing rage in her eyes. When one
of the rocks narrowly misses my head, Jessie releases me,
un-kissed, and chases all of them far into the distance
toward the train tracks.
LESSON 5
Unburying Yourself
I tiptoe around my mother, observing her cautiously from
the corner of my eyes. I ask my father if he knew my mother
killed her own mother.
“Yeah, I know'd,” he says. “Everybody knows, but don't
nobody talk about it. She ain't neva got ova it. Dat's why
she crazy as hell. Best if you don't ask huh nothin' 'bout it,
neitha. Jus' don't worry 'bout it. She ain't killed nobody else,
fuh as I know.” He chuckles to himself as if this is funny. I
stare at him stone-faced until he stops chuckling. I don't tell
my brothers, Jessie, Tiffany, or Davante about my mother. I
don't want them to know. I'm embarrassed to have a
mother who killed her own mother. I don't understand. I
don't know how to make sense of it. I always knew my
mother was harsh, but I didn't know she was capable of
something like that. I try to push it out of my mind, make up
stories about why she might have done it: Maybe her
mother was abusive, maybe her mother was trying to kill
her, maybe her mother was a very bad person. I choose the
third story and stick to it. My mother's mother must have
been a very bad person, I tell myself over and over.
My mother says baptism will stop me from becoming a
wizard. It will somehow change the direction of my energy
and turn me toward the light of the Lord. Even though my
mother has always been anti-religion, anti-church, and antiGod, I don't question her sudden insistence on me being
baptized. I'm too afraid of her to question anything she
says. If I defy her and become a wizard, will she kill me, too?
And if becoming a wizard makes you do bad things, I don't
want to become a wizard anyway. I don't tell anyone, even
my brothers, about me being a wizard and stopping the
time, so that nothing bad happens to them.
I begin attending Bible study every Tuesday and Thursday.
I follow Ms. Jannie all around the church, watching her tidy
and straighten things before eventually setting up the Bible
study classroom. Ms. Jannie seems very sure of herself and
at peace, so maybe it's not such a bad thing to become
religious and proud like her.
“My mother says I have to get baptized, like you, as soon
as possible,” I tell Ms. Jannie.
“Yo momma? Ms. Aprah-ain't-believed-in-God-since-Idon't-know-when tole you ta get baptized? Well, I guess hell
done froze ova and dese really is da end a' times. Dat's very
interestin', ain't it? Yo momma wantin' you to be baptized?”
I don't know how to answer her, so I just stare in silence.
“Well, what's mo impo'tant is dat you be ready to turn
yo'self ova to da Lawd. Dis not 'bout playin' no games, and
it's a lifetime commitment. Once you get baptized, you
become a servant of Mr. Jesus Christ. Is dat what you want
fo yo'self?”
Again, I don't know how to answer her, since I'm unsure I
want to be a servant of Mr. Jesus Christ. I stare at her in
silence before placidly nodding my head. “Yes.”
Ms. Jannie is delighted I have “taken such a keen interest
in da Lawd” and immediately takes me under her wing.
Every time I walk into the church, she smiles with her big
ham-hock teeth and gives me a bear hug, covering my
entire body in the smell of her old-lady perfume.
Eventually, I meet all the deacons and Bible study
teachers and try to force myself to pay keen attention, like I
do in school, but it's hard because I don't believe everything
they are saying. I wonder if this is how my brothers feel in
school. If they don't believe what the teachers are saying,
do they mentally check out? For example, the more the
Bible study teachers tell me about hell, the less I believe it's
true. Why would a loving, merciful God damn most of the
people on the planet to hell for eternity even though he
made them that way? Why would he make so many Muslims
and Buddhists and other people who aren't Christians just to
send them all to hell? I want to ask the Bible study teacher,
but I can tell these kinds of questions are not allowed.
My favorite part of coming to church is the bologna-andcheese sandwiches. The sandwiches have usually been
sitting out for hours, which means they are warm and
slightly soggy, just how I like them. The mayonnaise and
yellow American cheese meld seamlessly and dissolve
instantly in my mouth. I think about those sandwiches
throughout the entire class. The Bible study teacher says we
are only allowed to have one sandwich each after class, but
I secretly eat two or three every time, which means there
usually isn't enough for everyone, prompting the Bible study
teacher to scold the entire class for our “shameful
dishonesty and wickedness.”
“Remember, the Lord is always watching,” she says,
scowling.
I feel guilty when she says the Lord is watching, but I plan
to repent all my sins after my baptism.
The biggest sin I plan to repent is having sex with Jessie
outside of marriage. Jessie and I haven't even kissed yet,
but ever since that day in the shack, I can't stop thinking
about what it would be like to have sex with him. I don't
even really know what happens during sex, but I remember
how good it felt to touch him, and remember the warm,
tingling sensations in my underwear, which happen every
time I think about him. Jessie and I have both avoided
getting too close again, out of fear of what comes next. So
now we just smile and hit each other playfully, but I know
it's only a matter of time before we stand close to each
other again.
They talk a lot in Bible study about how bad sex is. The
Bible school teacher says we can get pregnant or get
diseases from having sex. I wonder if Jessie thinks about
having sex with me, even though I'm ugly, which I've
figured out with certainty now. I don't have big breasts or a
nice round behind, like the girls in rap videos. My skin is too
dark (I really hate how dark it is), and my hair is short,
brittle, and broken from the constant relaxing. I look like a
beast. Men don't want to sleep with beasts, I think to
myself. Once Jessie figures out that I'm a beast, I know he'll
stop liking me. I hope he doesn't figure it out anytime soon.
And I hope my baptism will allow me to repent all the
“unholy and impure” thoughts and fantasies I've already
had about him.
On the day of my baptism, three crows circle above the
church lawn. My mother sees them and bristles. She doesn't
say anything, but I watch her glance up nervously as we
enter the church.
“Well, it's mighty fine to see you in da church on a
mornin' otha dan Sunday, Ms. Aprah. How you been doin'?”
Pastor Aily says while warmly placing a hand on my
mother's back.
“Oh, well, you know, I'm survivin', Pastor, but then ain't
we all?”
“Yes, Lawd, ain't we all. Some of us a lil better than others
wit' da hep of da Lord,” he says jovially.
My mother rolls her eyes and heads to sit in one of the
pews in the back of the church.
“Now, you don't have to sit all da way back dere, Aprah.
You can come on up to da front wit' da rest of us. Everyone
is welcome, even nonbelievers such as yo'self,” Pastor Aily
shouts to my mother.
“Naw, naw, I'm awright. Don't worry 'bout me. I'a be jus'
fine back here.”
There are six people at my baptism: Ms. Jannie; my
mother; Pastor Aily; the Bible study teacher; Mrs. Dorothy
Althea, the church pianist; and the deacon, who will dip me
under the water when Pastor Aily tells him. Mrs. Althea
begins playing the piano on the side of the room and singing
a gospel song called “Come to Jesus.” We all bow our heads
and hold our hands in prayer while she sings. Mrs. Althea
has a beautiful voice that reaches out and grabs you by the
heart when you least expect it. We are all in tears before
she finishes the song, due to the emotion and spirit she
infuses into every note. We clap as Pastor Aily stands and
makes his way to the front of the church.
The fluidity of Pastor Aily's movements, combined with his
stature and very round body, gives the appearance that he
is not walking but rolling everywhere. I can't help but giggle
while he walks. Ms. Jannie sees me giggling and shoots a
sharp look in my direction, silencing my laughter and forcing
me to return to the seriousness of the moment. I am
wearing a black one-piece bathing suit beneath a robe. I
look down at my skinny frame and wish it were more filled
in, like my mother's. My hair is covered with a black
swimming cap to protect it from getting wet, but it doesn't
matter whether I wear the cap or not. My hair looks awful
either way.
Pastor Aily and the deacon stand in front of the circular
tub full of tepid water that I wish was warmer. I test it
beforehand, when no one is looking, and decide it's too cold.
Secretly, I would just like to take a nice long bath and relax,
but I know this won't be anything like a bath. Ms. Jannie tells
me to kneel before the pastor and the deacon, and I comply.
My mother jumps up and protests, saying her daughter “will
not kneel before no man.”
Pastor Aily scolds my mother again and says, “Aprah,
Aprah, please relax in the house of the Lord. You have
chosen your path; let this sweet girl choose hers.”
My mother bristles and raises her combat shell. “Why y'all
church niggas gots to be so damn uppity? How you know
what path I'm on? Don't talk to me like I'm da devil walkin'
da earth. Did you fo'get I'm da reason she in here gettin'
baptized in da first place, Pastor?” She stresses the P and
stretches out the a to mock the Pastor so it sounds like
Paaastor.
Pastor Aily softens and agrees to let me sit on the bench
with Ms. Jannie and Mrs. Althea instead of kneeling while my
mother fumes in the back of the church. Pastor Aily bows his
head, takes a deep breath, murmurs something to himself,
and then opens his black Bible, which is frosted with gold
paint on the sides. He begins, “Galatians chapter five, verse
seventeen: ‘For the flesh sets its desire against the Spirit,
and the Spirit against the flesh; for these are in opposition
to one another, so that you may not do the things that you
please.'”
As soon as he says the word “flesh,” the tingling
sensations start and I am transported. I feel like some part
of me leaves my body, my own flesh still sitting there with
Pastor Aily and his deacon, but I am not there, my mind has
gone somewhere else. I am lying in my bed with Jessie. We
are looking into each other's eyes. He tells me I'm the
prettiest girl he ever saw and he can't stop looking at me. I
stare deeply into his dark brown irises. I want to lose myself
in them. I tell him about the warm tingling, and he tells me
he can help me with that. I ask him how, and he starts to
run his hand slowly down my stomach toward the tingling.
The closer he gets, the faster and louder I start to breathe
until I hear Pastor Aily shout:
“Are you all right, girl? What's going on? Why are you
breathing like that?”
I tell Pastor Aily I'm just nervous and I don't know how to
swim and what if I drown in that pool that is supposed to set
my soul free. I ask, “If I drown, will it still count as a baptism
and will my soul still be set free?”
Pastor Aily looks bewildered at my question. I am
bewildered I asked, but I can't tell him what I was thinking
about while he was reading from the Bible.
“I won't let you drown,” Pastor Aily says assuredly. “Just
take a deep breath, relax, and bow your head while I finish
reading the necessary verses.
“Now, where was I? Oh, yes, here … ‘For the one who
sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but
the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap
eternal life.'” The tingling starts again when I hear the word
“flesh,” and I am back with Jessie. He pushes his hand down
into my underwear. I try not to breathe fast or loud, so that
Pastor Aily won't know, but it's hard to hold my breath in.
Jessie starts rubbing me down there. I haven't been touched
like that since I was seven years old by the man down the
street who takes me to his house when my mother isn't
looking.
That's when I learn about the tingling sensations, at
seven, from the man who also rubbed me down there. I am
confused at the time. It feels good and it feels bad all at
once. At seven, I don't understand how that is possible. The
man whispers to me while he rubs me, “I like your pretty
little flesh,” over and over. He smells like alcohol and musk
and the whiskers of his beard graze my face every time he
whispers into my ear. I ask him what the word “flesh”
means, but he tells me not to worry about that and to just
lie back and relax.
Sitting now on the edge of the tub in church, having
moved from the front pew at the command of Pastor Aily, I
still don't know what the word “flesh” means, but it has
power over me. The deacon helps me take off my robe, tells
me to relax, and then dips me back into the lukewarm, but
too-cold water. I hear Pastor Aily say, “Relax your body,” but
instead of “body,” I hear the word “flesh” again. As soon as I
am submerged under the water, I begin flailing and
splashing. Suddenly, Jessie turns into the flesh man down
the street and we are outside and not in my bedroom
anymore. I run away from him and tell him to stop. I tell him
to bring Jessie back, that only Jessie can touch me like that. I
scream at the top of my lungs, “Leave me alone!” I turn
around, stop stark in the middle of the sidewalk, and try to
direct all the energy in my body toward him. I put my hands
up in front of me, palms facing him, as if lightning will come
shooting out of my hands. I scream one more time for him
to leave me alone. I watch in shock as a car suddenly comes
barreling up on the sidewalk, striking him from behind. I
whip my head up toward the sky and watch as he floats way
up in the sky, far, far away from me. When he finally falls
back to the earth and lands on the ground with a disturbing
thud, I run over to him and am surprised by what I see. I
cover my mouth with both hands in shock as Jessie's lifeless
eyes stare back up at me. I shake my head in disbelief and
scream, “No, no, no!”
When I open my eyes, I am still submerged. I have
stopped flailing and screaming now, but I hold myself
underwater at the shock of what I have seen. The deacon
tries to pull me out while shouting, “It's ova now! Come on
now, girl! You can get out!” When he is unable to pull me
out alone, Pastor Aily, my mother, and Ms. Jannie all come
running and forcefully pull me from the tub. Everyone looks
stunned. My mother wraps me in a towel and drops to her
knees. “Ecka, baby, what happn'd? What you kept yellin' fo?
What you mean stop touching you? Did sumthin' happen to
you, baby? Ecka, look at me and tell me what you mean by
‘stop touching me'?” I don't say anything to my mother, but
she reads the terror in my eyes and she knows. She grabs
my hand and yanks me forward before eventually pulling
me out of the church, dripping wet, wearing only a swimsuit
and wrapped in a towel. Pastor Aily, the deacon, the Bible
study teacher, Mrs. Althea, and Ms. Jannie all stand and
stare, mouths agape, not having words or biblical verses to
mask the shock of the moment.
When we get home, I sit quietly in a chair at the kitchen
table while my mother paces angrily back and forth, calling
all her friends and cussing and crying. “Lord  kill 'im.
Naw, I ain't gon' calm down, Regina! Ain't no way ta protect
a girl chile in this world. Jus' ain't no way! I swore on my
soul dis wann't never gon' happ'n to huh. And look it done
happened right under my goddamn nose.  kill 'im, I
swear 'fo God!” She is so angry, she goes outside and paces
the length of the driveway while shouting into the phone.
I sit alone at the kitchen table, trying to figure it all out.
Trying to understand. I stare up at the picture of Jesus
hanging over the stove. I am shocked to see that he has
somehow changed positions. Instead of his normal hands-inprayer, head-rolled-up position, now his arms extend out in
front of him and he stares down compassionately as if he's
looking right at me. I rub my eyes, but when I look up, he's
still in his new celestial position. I wonder how much
stranger this day will get. I stare at new Jesus and blur
everything else out. I ask Jesus when he's coming back to
save us from all this chaos and tell him how much I wish he
was real because I need a Savior to help get me through all
of this. I will Jesus to wake up, to uncurl from his celestial
position and live up to all the stories they tell about him in
church, but he doesn't.
I push everything that happened out of my mind,
including the vision of Jessie being hit by a car. I would
never want that to be true, not in a million years. Not in a
billion, trillion years. I decide I won't tell Jessie what I saw. I
won't ever speak of it, so it never comes true. I merge into a
hazy filter that softens the entire room and the sound of my
mother's voice from outside. If my life were a movie, we
would be in a dream sequence surrounded by white haze,
with the volume of my mother steadily turned down until
you couldn't hear her at all. Then the camera would focus
on me, sitting in sadness at the kitchen table in a white
towel and a black swim cap with my hands clasped on my
lap, eyes closed, trying to make it all go away, trying to bury
it again. I thought I had buried the pain so far down that it
would never come back.
The fifth lesson of wizard training is everything you have
buried inside will rise from the dead one day. Nothing can
stop you from bleeding over into the corridors of your own
flesh. Everything must eventually exist in the light. You
cannot become an enlightened wizard until you exorcise
your demons.
Now I understand why my mother is always on the verge
of collapse, why she is always suspended in a state of
destruction rather than transformation. She has left too
much buried. She has refused to release her pain and face
herself. This whole time she has been trying to liberate a
graveyard, but not even a quantum wizard has the power to
do that.
LESSON 6
Evading the Black Veil
And not even a quantum wizard can change what has really
happened to Jessie. Tiffany is standing in my kitchen,
speaking in slow motion. I don't know if she is really
speaking slowly or if I'm imagining it, but as soon as she
says, “Jessie's in the hospital,” everything stops and the
hazy filter bursts. It all bursts. Tiffany's tears fall out
everywhere. All over the kitchen floor. I have never seen her
like this. I have never seen her cry. Not even after Mrs.
Jackson-Randolph pulled us from the water. I couldn't stop
crying after Mrs. Jackson-Randolph saved me, but Tiffany
just sat stone-faced, staring at the same water that almost
drowned her. She could not cry for her own life, even then,
but she is weeping now for Jessie's. We all love Jessie,
especially her. Especially me. Tears pour out of my eyes
also, even though I don't make a sound. I just stare at her
with streams of tears gushing down my face while she yells,
“He cain't die! He cain't die, Echo!”
When we get to the hospital, a day after my baptism, and
I see him unconscious, with tubes coming out of his mouth,
a bandage around his head, and an IV stuck in his arm, I
decide for certain there is no God. What God would do this?
We wanted to rush to the hospital yesterday, right after it
happened, but Jessie's parents told my mother he was in
surgery, to come the next day. Tiffany and I stayed in the
kitchen, weeping, inconsolable. My mother wrapped her
arms around both of us. Her shell had dropped and she
became a nest, like my father on the night of the fire. She is
rarely a nest. I wish she were always a nest.
Jessie's parents are nests now, too. I wonder why only
tragedy seems to transform our parents into nests? Warm
and supportive. Loving and kind. His parents kiss his
forehead and pray over him, calling upon a God who will
never come. Have they not noticed that Jesus never actually
intervenes, no matter what kind of chaos is happening in
our poor, tiny apartments? He just watches it all, helpless. I
think about the Jesus hanging in our kitchen, who appeared
to change positions. I convince myself that I imagined it,
even though the picture of Jesus in Jessie's hospital room is
oddly in the same new position. I ignore him and his open
arms. I decide I won't try to talk to him anymore—not after
this.
Initially, I try to be strong when I see Jessie in his hospital
bed, since everyone else is dissolved in grief. Someone has
to be strong for Jessie. I try to suck my own tears back up
into the center of my spirit, but they just keep falling,
endlessly falling. I choke on the sound of my own wails. I cry
like a future widow. Jessie was going to be mine. My one
person in the world who wanted me despite the fact that I'm
an ugly beast. And now I have been left with nothing. I
become aware that I'm crying for myself also, for the fact
that I will always be alone in the world. The thought of it is
almost unbearable. I buckle over from the pain. I spiral
prayers. I ask what I can give to make it all go back to the
way it was.
Everyone is here: Davante, Tiffany, my brothers, our
mother and father, Jessie's parents and sister. All the eyes in
the room are wet, running with endless tears. Even
Davante, who has teased Jessie relentlessly since we were
young, has been brought to his knees. He sits, holding
Jessie's hand, solemnly staring straight ahead. And Dre,
sweet Dre, turns to me and asks, “Is he gonna be awright?”
I want to be strong for Dre, too, but I can't. His question hits
me right in the center, causing more tears to fall from my
eyes. “I don't know,” I say finally. “I don't know.”
The doctor says it's very unlikely Jessie will regain full
mobility. They did all they could, but when he wakes up, he
will likely be paralyzed, or “neurologically compromised,” or
both. He has several contusions in his brain, which they call
a “traumatic brain injury.” He also has a spinal cord injury.
His spine was broken in three places. “It was a very long
operation,” the doctor says, “but we think he's going to pull
through. He's in a coma right now and we don't know how
long he'll be in it. All we can do is hope he comes out on the
other side of this in the best shape possible. My deepest
sympathies to you all.” The doctor's lips stretch and curl up
at the sides into a warm half smile as he soberly drops his
head before leaving the room. I keep looking at him, waiting
for him to turn around and say something else. Waiting for
him to say, Actually, I changed my mind. Everything's gonna
be just fine. But he doesn't. As he walks out of the room, my
last bit of hope leaves with him. I sink into the deepest
sadness I have ever known.
Later Rone and Davante, who were both there, tell me
what happened. They were playing in the field until the sun
went down. On the way home, they decided to play Ghetto
Superman, where they try to do something to prove their
strength, like jumping down a flight of stairs or running into
a wall at high speed or racing across the street while a car is
coming, which is what they were doing when Jessie got hit. I
have told them so many times not to do things like this. But
they are boys trying to become men, and they think this is
what men do to prove their manliness. I am learning that
boys do so many stupid things to prove their manliness.
As soon as Jessie gets hit by the car, Rone runs home,
calls the police, and gets the adults while Davante stays
with Jessie, holding his hand right there in the middle of the
street. Minutes later, Jessie's father and our father and so
many other fathers from the neighborhood come running at
top speed. The mothers run three or four paces behind.
Jessie's father screams at the top of his lungs, “No, no, no,
no! Goddammit, not my boy!” All the fathers and mothers
gather around Jessie's body, which is twisted awkwardly in
an unnatural position. They know he can't be moved until
the ambulance arrives.
The ambulance and two police cars come whirring onto
the scene. The police ask my brother and Davante
questions: What happened? How did he get hit? Were you
playing in the street? But they say nothing. They are in
shock. Their brains stop producing words that they can
speak out loud. They stand there in silence watching the
whole thing play out: the medics carefully lifting Jessie up
onto a stretcher; the three crows circling above and cawing
mercilessly at the top of their lungs; the dark, low-hanging
clouds; Jessie's father continuing to shout, “No, no, no!” at
the top of his lungs. His mother crying while climbing into
the back of the ambulance. The tragedy of the day will be
forever burned into them.
The nurse says visiting hours for non–family members are
almost over, but I don't want to leave. I want to remain with
Jessie's parents and sister, who will all stay overnight. I ask
my mother if I can stay. If we can tell the doctor I'm one of
his sisters, too, even though I'm not light-skinned with good
hair. My mother thinks to herself and says, “Naw, baby, I
know how much Jessie means to you and yo brothas, but I
thank da family should have some alone time wit' him now.
If anythang like dat eva happ'n to you, God forbid, I'd wanna
jus' be wit' da family at some point.
“And I want you ta know, dat afta all dis pass ova, we
need ta talk about what happn'd yestaday in dat church. I
needs to know what happn'd, baby.”
I am too full of emotion to speak and am overwhelmed by
her sudden warmth and compassion. My body immediately
locks up, though, when I think about the fact that I still don't
know why or how she killed her own mother. I look up at her
with renewed suspicion. She sees it but remains soft and
keeps her shell lowered to stay warm toward me.
My family and I begin hugging and saying goodbye to
everyone in the room. Davante and Tiffany also get up to
say their goodbyes. I turn toward Jessie and reach down to
give him a hug without disturbing the various medical
devices tucked in and around his body. I look at his closed
eyes and yearn for them to open and look at me like they
did that day in the field. When they don't open, I give him a
kiss on the forehead.
Just as I start to pull away, I notice something on the
windowsill, which is slightly cracked. At first, I assume it's a
bird, but it doesn't move like a bird. It moves like a spinning
disk, like the thing I saw in the air that day at church. I start
walking toward the window to get a better look while
everyone else continues to say their goodbyes. My mother
sees me and comes running over. I lift the window and then
recoil in shock, covering my mouth with both hands. I see it,
the black veil, right outside, hovering in the dark of night. I
see clearly now that it looks like an ominous black creature
with no face, shaped like a rectangular piece of fabric, that
ruffles and moves like a flag in the wind. I hold my hands
over my mouth so tightly, the pressure might crush my
jaws. I am infused with terror. Just like that day on the
church lawn when we released the black balloons, I feel
heavy, a thousand pounds, like I can't move. And there is an
awful sinking feeling in my stomach.
My mother quickly closes the window, puts her hands on
both my shoulders, and nudges me toward the door. “She
just very upset,” my mother says to others in the room who
have been watching me in confusion. “Dat's all it is. She
upset. Jessie been her little buddy since kindergarten, so
she takin' it hard. And it's been a tough coupl'a days fo huh
even befo' dis happn'd.”
We all rush out onto the street in the dark of night, each
heading to our respective apartments. My family and I
shove ourselves into a nearby taxi. I turn my head
backward, unnaturally so, craning my neck to see if the
black veil is still there. It is. I see it, hovering outside Jessie's
window. I shudder, turn back around, and sink into the warm
arms of my parents and brothers.
“I first seen it when I'as ten years old,” my mother tells me,
“da black veil.” She is smoking a cigarette while we sit
across from each other at the kitchen table. It's Saturday
morning, a week after Jessie's accident. No one else is
home. Dre and Rone have both run off to collect cans and
scrap metal that they will later sell to Mr. Jimmie James for
their own pleasures, not to buy dog food. My father is at
Rockets, an after-hours bar that opens at eight for those
who like to start drinking at the crack of dawn, like him. He
drinks even more when bad stuff happens, like Jessie's
accident. Alcohol is the only way he knows how to process
and hide his feelings. I've never seen my father cry, but I
know he must be a deeply feeling person if he needs to
drink that much. So it's just me and my mother as she
recounts memories from her past. My mother has never
talked to me like this before, so real and direct, like I'm an
adult. I listen intently to everything she says.
“I was a lil thang. Had curly pigtails in my hair, like how I
use'ta do yo hair when you was a lil girl. I'as runnin' 'round
witout a care in dis world. I'as free den, befo' ev'rythang
went down. I memba da first time it happn'd. I'as jus' in my
room colorin' or playin' wit' my dolls. And he come in dere,
my uncle, and sat on the edge of my bed. I know'd as soon
as he walked in, somethin' wasn't right. Said he got a
special gift fo me. Said I cain't tell nobody 'bout it … And I
was a chile, so I liked da idea of special gifts dat was jus' fo
me. Gave me a pink teddy bear wit' a big ol' white bow
'round da neck. I was so happy to have it, I jump up and
give him da biggest hug.” She pauses to blot some of the
ash from her cigarette into the tray before blowing out a big
plume of smoke. “But den, he jus' … he jus' started puttin'
his hands er'ywhere. Befo' I know'd what was happ'n, he
was on top of me. I'as only six or seven, but I jus' kept
thankin' to myself, Dis ain't right. Dis ain't right at all. Next
thang I know'd, I was up on da ceilin', just sittin' up dere
watchin' da whole thang. Sittin' up dere was da only way I
survived it. I thought dat'd be it. Won't be no mo 'cause he
done took what he wanted, but dat was jus' da beginnin'.
Kept goin' like dat fo four years. Lawd, four long years.”
My mother rests her cigarette on the rim of the ashtray,
abruptly gets up from the table, and pours two glasses of
cherry Kool-Aid—my favorite. She also grabs a can of Vienna
sausages and empties them onto a small saucer sitting in
the middle of the table. She motions for me to eat some. I
don't want to eat in this moment. I am overwhelmed by
what she is telling me. But I don't want to upset her, so I
grab one and take tiny bites until she looks satisfied. When
she continues, not noticing whether I'm eating or not, I
throw the half-eaten sausage into the cat bowl next to the
table. I know our cat, Piggy Mae Pearl, will gobble it soon.
“I know you thank I must be da meanest momma in da
worl',” my mother continues, “but I'as jus' tryin' ta protect
you. Lawd, I swore nothin' like dat wasn't neva gon' happen
to you, I'a see to it. And look, it done happn'd ta ya.” Her
eyes fill with tears, but they don't fall; she sucks them back
in before they leave the rim of her eye sockets. She puts out
her cigarette and grabs a new one. I watch her light the new
cigarette as her hands tremble and shake.
“Well, anyways, 'ventually jus' sittin' on da ceilin' wutn't
enough. I started sankin' way down inside myself. Till one
night afta he left, I seen it up dere, right above me. Black
and scary-like, hoverin' right ova me. I started screamin' at
da top of my lungs 'cause I didn't know what it was. My
uncle came runnin' on back in dere, 'cause he was da only
one home while my momma was workin'. He turned on da
lights and start sayin', ‘Aprah! Aprah! What's wrong wit'
you, gurl?' I covered my mouth jus' like you did and pointed
at da ceilin'. But he jus' kept sayin' ‘What is it? What is it?!
I'on' see nothing!' He looked all around my room, unda da
bed, in da closet. All da while, I'm still coverin' my mouth
wit' my hands and starin' at da ceilin', watchin' it hova right
ova me. I would see it e'ry night, until finally, I sank so far
down, at da bottom of myself, it finally swooped on down
and covered me, my whole head. I felt like I was suffocatin'.
I couldn't breathe.
“When my momma finally come home from work da next
mornin' and seen me collapsed on my bed, strangled by da
black veil and da rest of me sittin' up on da ceilin' watchin',
she went and got Ms. Mary Jacobs and Ms. Corrine Turner,
the two most powerful quantum wizards she knew. They had
to do a special ceremony to brang me back. I had done all
but died inside myself, so dey had to do a special kind a'
cer'mony only quantum wizards can do ta brang somebody
back from da dead. And I was 'bout nearly dead by da time
dey got to me. All three of 'em worked to get me off da
ceiling and ta get da thang, da veil, off me. Da only problem
is, dat veil can get inside yo head, make you see and
believe thangs dat ain't true. So when dey finally got it off
me and sucked me down off da ceilin' back into my body, I
come to, heavin' and coughin', but I still wasn't myself. All I
seen was demons, like da pastor had tole me in church, I
seen demons all around me. I thought my momma, Mary
Jacobs, and Ms. Corrine was demons dat was gon' hurt me
like he did. So I grabbed da knife I had up unda my pillow. I
had put it dere intendin' to kill my uncle 'cause I jus'
couldn't take it no mo. I grabbed dat knife and…”
My mother stops talking. I see now that tears are
streaming, running down her face, but her eyes are dead,
lifeless. She looks up at me, directly into my eyes. I see the
pain now, the tremendous well of pain just on the other side
of the coldness of her eyes. “I ain't mean ta do it. I … I…”
She starts stumbling over her words. The words begin
stomping out of her mouth with such grief and intensity, I
grab the sides of my own face to try to steady myself and
remain present. “I … I … Don't you undastand, it was a
accident! Wutn't s'posed to happ'n like dat … When I finally
got my sense back, and I seen my momma lyin' dere wit' a
knife stickin' out of her chest, I got right down next to her
and I spiraled every praya I had way up and I said, ‘Lawd,
no, take me instead.'”
My mother stops speaking and drops her head. So many
tears have fallen from her eyes, it looks like someone
poured water on the table in front of her. Her hands are
gripped, clasped in prayer. She starts screaming, a guttural
scream, a sound a wolf might make when it loses one of its
young. “I didn't mean ta do it!” she shouts at the top of her
lungs. “I didn't mean ta do it! Lawd, I'd give anythang to
have my momma back! I'd give anythang! Even my own
soul. What kind of worl' is dis?! What kinda worl' is dis we
livin' in?!”
Thousands of questions race through my mind: What
happened next? Did you go to jail? What happened to your
uncle? What did Mary Jacobs and Ms. Corrine do? How did
you keep going without your mother? Endless questions, but
only one falls out of my mouth: “What happened to the
black veil?”
My mother raises her head and looks at me in confusion,
slightly turning her head to the side before saying, “Cain't
you see it? It neva left me. It's been wrapped around me
eva since.”
As soon as she says this, I suddenly see the black veil
cloaked around her head. I jump up from the table, pushing
my chair back, and falling into the stove. I can't believe
what I'm seeing.
“I thought you could see all of 'em now. We all got 'em. Yo
daddy, Ms. Patty, yo brothas, just dat only wizards can see
'em. It ain't on you yet, and you got to fight to keep it off.
Only way you can keep it off is to stay lifted. Got to stay
spirited and in da light. Dat's why I was tryin' so hard to
protect you and yo brothas. I didn't want none of dis to
happ'n to y'all. Only way I can get mine off now is drankin'
and druggin', othawise it's always on me. I done learned
how ta live in it mostly, but sometimes, I jus' cain't control
it, the darkness inside me. I knows I ain't done nothin' right
by y'all. I knows how much I done messed up. And I knows
you sad and devastated 'bout what happened wit' Jessie.
You cain't let his accident sink you, tho. You gotta fight. You
got ta keep goin' ta keep it off ya. If ya keep goin', stay
spirited and stay up, it'a stay away from ya, okay? It needs
you to be sinkin' inside befo' it come around.”
The sixth lesson of wizard training is that the black veil
haunts the darkness and pain inside of you. Once it begins
its ominous descent, the only way to keep it off you is to
stay spirited, lifted, and internally risen.
My mother sees me staring at the black veil wrapped
around her and says, “Just close yo eyes and thank to
yo'self, Show me da light, and you'a stop seein' 'em. You'a
see da light in people again instead of da darkness. And if
you wanna see people's darkness, if dat's somethin' you
feel like you wanna see, just close yo eyes and thank to
yo'self, Show me da darkness, and dere dey'll be, all da
black veils, as plain as day.”
I take my mother's suggestion, close my eyes, and ask to
see the light. When I open them, I am stunned. My mother is
glowing, like on the night of the spades party. She is radiant,
warm, ethereal. The sight of her this close up brings tears to
my eyes. “Dis who I am, too, who I was befo' it all happn'd,”
she says. “I done spent my whole life tryna get back, tryna
come home … I want you ta remember me like dis. I want
you ta think a' me like dis when da veil take ova me, okay?
Can you do dat fo me, baby?” I nod my head emphatically
yes and lunge across the table, giving her the biggest hug I
can muster.
I walk around the neighborhood switching between the two
ways of seeing. I am shocked at how many people around
us have a black veil wrapped around their heads. Now I
understand why so many of them drink and drug like my
mother, to try to lift it. I start walking toward the hospital to
visit Jessie. My brothers and Tiffany are supposed to meet
me there. Davante and I usually walk to the hospital
together after school, but today he had to stay to work on a
group project, which I find out later. Sometimes on our walks
to the hospital, he even holds my hand. I never say anything
when he does because I don't know if he's holding my hand
as a friend or more than friends. I haven't figured it out, but
I like holding his hand. I am smiling to myself, thinking
about Davante, when I round the corner of the church and
see Tiffany walking toward me. My smile widens as I yell,
“Hey, Tiffany! Do you want to walk to the hospital
together?” My smile fades as I see she looks irritated.
She walks right up to me and says with hostility, “I just
came from da hospital.”
“Oh, that's cool,” I respond. “I thought we was all
supposed to meet there. I'm heading up there now.”
Tiffany rolls her eyes and says, “I wanted ta be alone wit'
him, finally. Since you was always on his dick. Always
following him around like a lost puppy.”
I don't know how to respond to Tiffany, so I remain silent.
“What, you don't got nothin' to say? You jus' gon' stand
dere looking dumb?”
I open my mouth to try to form words, but nothing comes
out. Suddenly, I close my eyes and think to myself, Show
me the darkness. When I open my eyes, I see that Tiffany
has a black veil wrapped tightly around her. I wonder if it
comes from all the pressure she's under to take care of
herself and her little brother since her mother is heavily
strung out. Or if she has a flesh man down the street, like
me. Or an uncle who brings her special gifts, like my mother.
I wonder what has caused her black veil.
“I'm sorry if I did anything wrong to you, Tiffany. I don't
know what I did, but I just want Jessie to get better, like I'm
sure you do also.”
Tiffany rolls her eyes again and says, “Yeah, whatever. I'll
see you around.”
I watch her walk away. I hurry toward the hospital,
spiraling prayers to the beyond to rid us of all our despair.
LESSON 7
Killing the Imposter
My classmate, Elena Farahmand, has two black veils. I stare
at her from across the classroom trying to make sense of it.
A year has passed since Jessie's accident. An entire year. I
used to think a year was a long time, but this past year flew
faster than the speed of light. Now here I am, thirteen years
old in my last year of middle school, carefully observing
Elena, who moved here eight months ago from Iran. I don't
know where Iran is, but it sounds very far away. The teacher
introduces her as “a new student from the Middle East.” The
only thing I know about the Middle East is what they say on
the news: that Muslims and terrorists live there, and the
United States is always bombing it for oil. I want to ask
Elena what it's really like where she comes from since my
parents say “ya cain't trust nothin' you see on TV.”
I've never seen anyone who looks like Elena. She's white,
but not white like the other white people in the school. She
will later explain that she's Persian, which makes her an
“ethnic minority, like Hispanics and black people,” but she
still looks more like a white person to me. She has olive skin,
green eyes, and long, silky black hair, which is covered
today with a black headscarf, her second veil. She only
started wearing the headscarf a couple of weeks ago. She
shifts nervously in her seat and seems shrunken and small,
avoiding eye contact with everyone in the class, which is
shocking to me. She usually bounces down the hallway with
a full face of makeup like the other white girls. Today, with
the headscarf covering her hair and the ominous black veil
hovering right above her, threatening to latch on at any
moment, Elena doesn't seem like her normal confident self,
and I want to understand why.
My own black veil hasn't returned since I saw it outside
Jessie's hospital room. I've been trying to stay lifted and
spirited, like my mother said, even though I'm not really
sure what that means. I mostly just stay busy and hope
that's enough. I'm so afraid of the black veil returning, I
even try to stay busy in my dreams. I keep having dreams
where I'm running. I never reach a destination, but I'm
always running, hiding, and looking over my shoulder. I
never see the black veil in my dreams, either, but I know
that's what I'm running from. I hope with all the cells in my
body it never returns for me.
I especially have to stay spirited and lifted when I visit
Jessie. I still can't believe how different he is since the
accident. Every time I visit him, I have to amp myself up
with a pep talk before. Otherwise it makes me very sad. As
soon as I walk into his room at the rehab center, I summon
all the positivity and good energy I can, unleashing the
biggest “Jessie!” He lights up, grinning from ear to ear. Most
of the doctor's worst predictions came true. He's paralyzed
from the waist down, which means he'll never walk again.
His right arm is functional, but he has very limited use of his
left hand and arm, which hangs folded and stiff at his side.
His cognitive abilities are restricted, which means he can't
process and understand information like before. We can't
talk about all the things we used to talk about: aliens in
outer space, how many people are in the world, how great
Tupac's music is. Instead, we watch cartoons together like
Pinky and the Brain. He always shouts after, “What are we
gonna do tomorrow?!”
I look at him before pausing dramatically and then saying,
“The same thing we do every day, Pinky—try to take over
the world!”
Jessie laughs. “Try to take over the world!” he says
several times.
He sometimes repeats what the people around him say,
as if he's trying to paint the words in front of him to make
sure he understands. And the tone at the end of his
repeated sentences is always raised, as if he's asking a
question: We're gonna have lunch now, Jessie. “We're gonna
have lunch now?” It's freezing outside. “It's freezing
outside?”
There is also a blankness in Jessie's eyes now, like an
empty white piece of paper. Everything that used to be
written on that piece of paper—his curiosities, his
frustrations, his fears—is no longer perceptible at the
surface. But he's becoming an artist, with a clear passion for
light, color, and music. He started painting soon after he
came out of the coma. He can paint only with his right hand
and paints elaborate, colorful pictures. He has a new picture
just for me every time I come visit. He gives me pictures of
trees, animals, his family, cartoon characters, or balloons. I
have never liked art, but something about Jessie's paintings
speak to me. They feel alive, radiating an exuberant energy.
I hang several of his paintings around my room.
Jessie will be getting out of the rehab center soon, which
was covered entirely by Jessie's father's insurance. Jessie's
father doesn't make much money as a janitor in one of the
downtown office buildings, but he gets excellent medical
coverage for him and his family. At least, that's what my
mother says: “Thank God dat boy's fatha got a good job wit'
benefits. If it had happn'd to one a' y'all, I'on know what we
woulda done. Da gov'nment insurance we got shole ain't
gon' cova no year in rehab. I knows dat fo sho.” Jessie has
spent the last year regaining his ability to speak, read,
write, and feed and wash himself, basically all the skills we
learned as children. Now that he has learned to do all those
things, the doctor says progress past his current level of
understanding will be improbable. His parents plan to put
him in a school for kids with special needs.
Everyone visits Jessie often, including Dre, Tiffany,
Davante, and my parents. Rone doesn't come, because he's
locked up in juvenile detention for stealing someone's car
and crashing it into a mailbox. He has also dropped out of
school. He's only twelve years old, but he's already making
so many bad decisions influenced by what's around us.
Maybe he doesn't realize different decisions can be made.
And he has a black veil covering him now, fully covering
him, but doesn't know it. I see it wrapped around him,
suffocating him, every time I visit juvenile detention. I
become even more determined to save him and Dre, who
has not dropped out of school, but at age eleven is already
drinking like our father. I try to think of ways to help. I
wonder if there are any miracles I can perform, but so far
the only miracle I can manage is stopping the time. I wonder
what other miracles are possible and how I'm supposed to
find out about them since my mother is still against wizardry
and she's the only wizard I know. My mother has become far
less hard on us since Jessie's accident, but she's still
smoking crack and wrapped in her own veil. On the days
when she's really strung out, I switch my view and see her
in the light again to remind myself of who she really is
without the drugs, the alcohol, and the black veil.
I am surprised by how many people around me smoke
cigarettes and do drugs and alcohol, even at the white
school on the West Side. I don't like the taste of alcohol and
don't see the point of putting smoke directly inside of your
lungs, so I have no desire for either. Some of the white girls
secretly drink beer from thermoses in the bathroom. I don't
know if they are really drinking beer, but that's the rumor
going around school. They all have silver thermoses with
different-colored tops, and it doesn't seem like the beverage
they are drinking is hot. They never have to blow on it or sip
slowly. Instead they guzzle it down and burp right after.
There are a bunch of girls who are always in there when I
have to use the bathroom. Elena was usually one of them,
with her silver thermos, but ever since she started wearing
the black headscarf, which I later find out is called a hijab, I
haven't seen her hanging out with the bathroom girls. I want
to talk to her, but I've never talked to someone from the
other side of the world, so I just secretly observe her and try
to imagine who she is and what she's like.
I'm slightly obsessed with figuring out Elena because
she's so pretty and appears to be different from the other
white girls at my school, who float carefree through the
hallway with their long blond or brown hair flowing
effortlessly behind them. I wonder if this is their way of
stopping time, because all the boys freeze and stare at
them the way my father's friends do at my mother on
Saturday nights. Whenever I stand next to them, I can feel
the blackness of my skin covering me all over, like a scar I
can't remove. I wonder how it would feel to walk through
the world as a white girl, if I would feel better about myself
on the inside. I am envious of all that has been given to
them and sad about everything that has not been given in
the same way to me. I know everything must not be perfect
for the white girls, either, however. When I switch views, to
the darkness, I see that many of them are covered by black
veils as well. I wonder why. I wonder what secrets and pain
are haunting them, what they have left buried.
I know Elena must be burying something big, because the
ominous black veil is even closer now, her shoulders are
always slumped, and she doesn't hang out with anyone
anymore. The girls she used to hang out with now snicker
and roll their eyes when she walks by in the hallway.
I wonder if there is going to be any drama on the field trip to
Cedar Point today. I love field trips because you get to
observe the entire social web of the school: who hangs out
with who, who doesn't like who, who does like who. My
favorite thing to do on field trips is to watch how everyone
interacts. Since I don't have any close friends at school, I
entertain myself by secretly observing others, like I did
when I was a kid with my brothers. Only this time, I don't
just observe. I make up stories about who I think they are. I
have a story for almost everyone. I pretend we are all on an
episode of Saved by the Bell. Jake, the boy all the girls like,
is our Zack Morris. He's blond with blue eyes, wears hightop sneakers, and talks to everybody in the hallway.
Jamericka, the only other black kid in our class (out of forty
black kids total in the school), is Lisa Turtle. She has curly
brown hair and is rich and stylish just like Lisa on TV.
Jamericka and I avoid each other, as do all the black kids at
the school. We all know instinctively that if we stick
together, the white kids will be threatened by our attempt to
bond over our skin color, like they do. We remain separate
and isolated even though we desperately need each other.
We pass each other like strangers in the hallway, but I feel
the pulse of their longing and I know they feel mine. Even
though stylish Lisa Turtle hangs out with a group of white
girls, I can tell she feels uncomfortable, too.
Our final guest star on Saved by the Bell: The White
School on the West Side Edition, is Elena, the foreigner from
the other side of the world. She was once one of the popular
girls, but now, after a mysterious twist of fate, she's a loner
who spends most of her time in her room watching Little
House on the Prairie reruns, secretly smoking cigarettes,
and writing love letters she'll never send to boys she likes at
school. She definitely watches Little House on the Prairie,
which I assume all white people do. Except Elena doesn't.
And she doesn't smoke cigarettes or write sad love letters to
cute boys. It turns out we have a lot more in common than I
could have ever imagined, which I learn on the field trip to
Cedar Point.
We talk the entire time at the amusement park. While
everyone else rushes onto thrill rides and roller coasters
with names like Power Tower and Corkscrew, Elena and I are
the only two who don't ride any of the rides. We are the
designated coat holders and water distributors. Every time
someone gets thirsty or wants their jacket, they come find
us sitting on a bench like two old women reminiscing about
the good ol' days. Neither of us sees the point of going on
rides that give you a headache or make you vomit.
“Who would willingly choose to do that?” Elena says while
we sit on the bench. “Humans are a mess, a failed species
for sure.”
I smile uneasily at the harshness of her comment and
respond, “Well, there are some good ones—Nelson Mandela,
Harriet Tubman, and Oprah! I mean, Oprah gives away cars
and houses, so she's definitely not one of the failures, but I
personally also don't understand a lot of things people do.
Like, I don't see the point of trick-or-treating; dressing up for
Halloween; riding skateboards, which are so dangerous; or
drinking pop, which is basically like drinking a can of
carbonated sugar water, and why would anyone want to do
that? I mean, we have to make an obvious exception for
Kool-Aid, but pop is basically poison.”
Elena nods but asks what Kool-Aid is.
When I tell her, she says, “Ew, that's just sugar water,
too, and preservatives.”
I tell Elena I will show her the wonders of Kool-Aid in due
time. We are like long-lost sisters, and we bond over our
eclectic tastes while eating nachos and popcorn and talking
about all the things in the world that don't make sense.
We talk about deeper stuff, too. I learn why Elena started
wearing a hijab, which she tells me is a complicated
religious and political symbol in her country. She didn't want
to wear it, but when her mother found out she was taking it
off when she got to school, she threatened to send Elena to
live with her uncle in Turkey if she didn't obey. “Just because
we are in America,” her mother said, “does not mean you
stop being Muslim. We will always be Muslim no matter
where we are!”
Like me, Elena struggles to believe in religion. “I just don't
understand why we have to listen to ancient men who died
centuries ago or to those who use religion as an instrument
of control. I'm just tired of living by all these meaningless
rules, but if I disagree in any way, my parents will ship me
off to Turkey, and I really want to stay in America. Anything
is possible for women here. And there's more freedom here
for people who…” Elena's voice trails off before she abruptly
changes the subject. “Hey, have you ever seen The Matrix? I
love that movie. It explains everything about our mindcontrolled reality. I love a lot of movies, but that's my
favorite. I want to be an actress, but my parents want me to
be a doctor like them. There's no way I'm becoming a
doctor. I just don't get it. Why can't you just be who you
want and be left alone? That's why I stopped hanging out
with the girls in the bathroom, too. They wanted me to be
just like them. It got harder and harder to pretend.” Elena
pauses, glancing up at a roller coaster as it climbs to its
highest peak before plunging down the tracks and back up
again. “I thought if I did whatever they wanted, I would
finally be ‘in' with ‘real' American girls, but I hated
everything they liked. They always talk about boys and
drink and watch cheesy movies like Pretty Woman or shows
like Little House on the Prairie.”—I knew it!—“God, kill me.
My mother says the worst thing you can be in this world is
an imposter, a fake person who just reflects what other
people expect from them, but she can't see that the person
she wants me to be is an imposter, too. It's painfully ironic.”
When Elena talks about imposters, I think about how out of
place I feel at this white school, and how out of place I feel
in my own neighborhood. I don't really fit in anywhere. I
wonder when things will be different. When I'll finally find a
place with other people like me, maybe even wizards like
me. I am suddenly overcome by an urge to tell Elena all
about the wizard stuff, but I don't know if she will believe
me. I decide against it since she is the first person I have
really connected with at school. Better not give her any
reason to believe I'm a freak, I think to myself.
“So those girls just stopped talking to you?” I ask instead.
“Well, once they figured out I wasn't really drinking beer,
and I kept ‘accidentally' dropping cigarettes every time they
gave me one, yes, they stopped talking to me,” Elena
responds. “And once I started wearing the hijab, there was
no chance we'd ever be friends again since they can't
handle ‘multiculturalism.' They never really accepted me
anyways. They kept talking about how ‘different' and ‘cool'
and ‘exotic' I looked. They would also ask me stupid
questions like if I knew how to make a bomb. I got the sense
they were only hanging out with me to get a closer look at
someone they didn't understand, like I was some exhibit at
a museum they couldn't wait to check out.”
“That's kind of ridiculous,” I say while laughing uneasily,
unsure how to respond. Even though I can relate to what
Elena is saying—since I feel like an exhibit at a museum
when other students try to touch my hair or ask me “Why
do black people do this, or say that, or act like that?”—I
suddenly feel deeply embarrassed. It's embarrassing to be
treated like an exhibit, I think before changing the subject to
get away from the embarrassment.
“What were you drinking, then? Out of that thermos, if it
wasn't alcohol?” I ask.
“Cucumber water. It kept me so refreshed and hydrated.”
We both burst out laughing and continue watching people
go up and down silly amusement park rides.
For the entire bus ride back to my apartment after the field
trip ends, I think about our conversation. Elena is nothing
like the story I made up in my mind. How many other people
are living lives outside of what I imagined for them?
Probably all of them. I wonder how two people from such
different parts of the world can have so much in common.
And I wonder how two people from the same neighborhood
can be so different. How Tiffany, who is waiting at the bus
stop smoking cigarettes with her friends when I get off, can
be so mean, even though we grew up together and were
almost-sisters. She lives in a roach-infested apartment like
ours, with busted Goodwill furniture, bedsheets for curtains,
and splintered floorboards. Tiffany's mother also smokes
crack, drinks, and had a traumatic childhood just like my
mother. When we used to play in the field, before Jessie's
accident, Tiffany always complained about how much she
hated her mother and how she wished her daddy wasn't in
prison. Tiffany also works on the weekends, like me, to pay
the bills her mother smokes up in crack and to help take
care of her six-year-old brother, Lil Man. We really could
have been sisters. But we're not.
And now she has made me the target of her rage. Maybe
because I have chosen to not give up, like all the people
around us, and it reminds her of everything she is sacrificing
in her own self-destruction. Maybe she wants to destroy the
reminder. She, like my brothers, also drinks, smokes
cigarettes, and has given up on school. Maybe she feels like
an imposter, too, trapped in a life she never wanted or
imagined, and it's all too much to bear.
If and when she finally decides to attack me, I'll be the
one who has to bear it. She and her friends have been
following me home, hurling insults, for two weeks. “Stuck-up
bitch,” they say. “Goody Two-shoes. Wannabe white girl.” I
mostly just keep my head down and pretend like I don't hear
them, but I know it's only a matter of time before their fists
back up their words.
I start going to Elena's house after school to escape
Tiffany and her friends. Elena lives on the West Side in a
nice house on a tree-lined street. She lives in the kind of
house I always wanted to live in. The first time I go there, I
stand on the sidewalk and stare at it with my mouth wide
open. There are big white pillars in front, all the windows are
huge, and the lawn wraps around the whole house.
“What's wrong?” Elena asks concernedly.
“Nothing. I've just … I've never been inside a house this
big before.”
Inside is even more amazing than outside. I again look at
everything with my mouth wide open. There is a grand
staircase, like the ones you see on the house-hunting shows.
At the top of the staircase there is a chandelier, and she
even has a black piano in the foyer. I have never heard the
word foyer until Elena's mother tells Elena to go and put the
flower vases, which were previously resting on the dinner
table, by the piano in the foyer. It's like a real life Full House,
only they seem even richer than the people on Full House. I
didn't know that people in real life could be richer than the
people on TV.
“So what do your parents do, Echo? I'm sure they must be
really proud of you,” Elena's mother asks while we are all
sitting around the dinner table. “Elena tells me you are
really smart and are at the top of your class.
Congratulations. I'm sure for someone with your
background, that's no easy feat.” I don't like the way she
says “someone with your background,” but I keep smiling
and nodding cheerfully. “Well, my father is a welder and my
mother is a seamstress,” I respond to Elena's mother, which
is only partially true. My mother was a seamstress right out
of high school, but she hasn't sewn in years, and my father
is a welder, but he drinks up most of his money, so we
depend on food stamps and welfare to get by.
“Oh, well, those are nice jobs to have in the world. My
husband, who's studying late at the university tonight, and I
are doctors. Surgeons. We're both in the residency program
at Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, getting
recertified. It's a lot of work. Neither of us is thrilled about it,
but we both believe a career in health care is one of the
most noble jobs you can have. Saving lives. There's nothing
more valuable. That's why we moved to Cleveland, for its
well-known hospitals and to give Elena access to a topnotch education.” Elena's mother glances toward Elena, but
Elena ignores her and glares down at the food. “I miss many
things about our country, but in America so much more is
possible for Elena. Who knows, maybe one day we'll all be
working at the same hospital as a family. That would be a
dream. Elena doesn't realize how lucky she is. She takes all
this for granted. Right now, in Iran, there is so much
economic strife. The money doesn't come from oil anymore.
We know all about oil, unfortunately. My father-in-law was in
the oil business and passed down most of his wealth to my
husband. We both feel guilty about that. ‘Blood money,' my
husband calls it because of how many people have died in
the pursuit of oil and wealth. When you both get older, you'll
see how complicated life can be.” Elena's mother takes a
deep, reflective sigh and continues talking. “Trade is down
also. The government is corrupt. The regime bends
everything, even using the sacred text of Islam to control
the people, but Islam, at least our practice, has nothing to
do with politics. I guess politics always smothers religion in
the pursuit of power eventually.” She shakes her head in
disappointment. “Poverty is rising also,” she continues.
“There is so much money and yet, so many remain poor,
embarrassingly poor in an ocean of wealth. I wonder if we
will ever have true equality in this world. Now many are
leaving, trying to find a way out of the madness. People will
always do what is needed to survive. My brother went to
Turkey. My cousins scattered across Europe. Only my mother
is still there, living in the mountains somewhere.”
I am surprised to hear from Elena's mother the same
despair my parents exhibit during their spades games. I
thought rich people were happy all the time, like on TV.
Elena, who appears totally unmoved by what her mother
has said, continues to look down at her plate angrily,
pushing her food around with her fork and rolling her eyes.
After dinner, Elena and I head to her bedroom and sit on
the floor by the side of her bed. I notice that Elena looks
pale and sunken—more sad than usual. I ask her if
everything is all right. “Oh yeah, I'm fine. It's fine,” she says
dismissively. We both sit in silence for a few seconds since I
don't know what else to say. She's clearly not fine. “It's just
… I mean … Why does life have to be so hard? How can she
sit down there and talk about ‘humanity' and ‘equality'
when she doesn't even accept her own daughter. She's such
a hypocrite! If she knew…” Elena shakes her head and tears
start to fill her eyes. “If she knew…,” Elena repeats, “she'd
lose her shit for sure and all that equality hypocrisy would
fly out the window!” Elena starts crying. I don't know how to
comfort her, since no one ever comforts me when I'm sad,
so I just look at her with a warm, partial smile. I want to
reach out and put my hand on her shoulder; that seems like
the right thing to do, but the gesture also feels awkward to
me. So I just sit next to her without saying anything.
“If she knew what?” I ask gently, trying not to upset her
again now that she's calmed down a little.
My gentleness doesn't work. Elena starts shaking her
head and crying intensely again. “God, I'm such a freak!”
she screams, while continuing to cry uncontrollably. “And
I've been seeing all these things that I know aren't real. My
parents want to put me on medication. They think
something's wrong with me.” When she says this, I switch
views and see that the black veil is now even closer to her
head. I watch as it extends to its full wingspan right above
her.
I jump up and say, “Elena, Elena!”
I point at the black veil looming. She looks up and I watch
terror roll across her eyes like dark clouds before a storm.
She shrieks in fear right as the black veil makes its final
descent. It suffocates her with such force, I'm afraid it's
going to kill her. Elena passes out suddenly. Her limp body
falls to the floor on the side of her bed. I stand up and look
around the room in a panic, wondering what I should do. A
million thoughts run through my mind. I try to yell for help,
but my throat constricts. My words won't come out, but my
mind races: Please! We need help! Please somebody
                                                help me! Please! I think to myself
while running as fast as I can up the sidewalk. Tiffany and
her friends are chasing me. They have finally grown bored
with only shouting insults. Tiffany flicked her lit cigarette at
me. I could feel the heat of the lit tip on my cheek before it
fell to the ground. I become so angry, I forget my fear and
push her, watching as she falls backward into the bus
shelter. She is stunned. Rage boils over in her eyes. And
now I'm being chased, at high speed, by a group of
ravenous girls who are going to shatter me if they catch me.
I hear them hulking and barking behind me. I am drenched
in sweat, and my lungs feel like they are going to explode,
but I keep running until my legs almost give out. I know if I
don't stop running soon, I'm going to pass
out again, but this time, Elena opens her eyes and stares
straight up at the ceiling. Her head is lying in my lap. I have
been gently patting her on both cheeks until she finally
opens her eyes. Suddenly, time starts to slow down and the
lights in the room grow dim. The second hand on Elena's big
white clock on the wall in front of us winds down to a
complete stop. I look up and see that the ceiling has
dissolved like on the night of the spades party, and I hear
the same hum in the background I heard that night. All the
specks of light in the dark space above begin to coil around
and around one another until they form two beams of light
that shoot down from the dark space above directly into
Elena and into my forehead. The light almost knocks me
to the ground. Tiffany's friends raise their fists and begin
to land them decisively all over my body. I try to cover my
face, but they still manage to hit me in the face several
times. I notice that Tiffany is just watching and has not
joined them in their attack. “Tiffany, stop this!” I yell at her.
“We're practically sisters! Please don't do this to me. We
have to take care of each other!” As soon as I say this,
Tiffany's black veil lifts, rising right above her head, spinning
and spiraling, while each beam shoots down from the
dark space above, hitting our foreheads. I am suspended,
unable to move. My eyes roll up while my arms fall limp at
my sides. I see from the corner of my eyes that the spiral of
light has raised Elena from her slumped position. She is
floating, suspended next to me, head rolled back and eyes
closed. Her arms fall and splay open behind her. I reach over
and grab one of her hands, releasing my unease in
comforting another person, as the light continues to spiral
into our foreheads. Like the night of the spades party, I feel
a rush of words flood my brain. Too many words. More words
than I can process. After it is over, the only words I
remember are Kill the imposter before the imposter kills
you. Become what you are or suffer.
The seventh lesson of wizard training is to kill the
imposter, the person you became to survive, and embrace
the original, the person you were before all the pain. The
person you are at the core. The original, not the imposter,
holds the true blueprint for what you are destined to
become in this world. You will find no answers in imposters,
but you will find everything at the source, in the soul of the
original. The imposter cannot perform the highest level of
miracles and rise in true power. Only a wizard, authentic and
lifted, can be of the greatest service to the people around
them.
The light retracts, and Elena and I both tumble to the
floor. She looks around in fear. “What the hell is going on?!”
I just stare at her in silence for several seconds, trying to
process everything. I had never considered the fact that
Elena might be a wizard, too. That wizards could exist on
the other side of the world.
“I think,” I begin slowly, “I think you're a wizard, too.”
“A wizard?!” Elena exclaims, and recoils
before yelling at her friends to “Stop!”
Her friends spin around and stare at Tiffany in confusion.
“But you said this stuck-up bitch think she betta than us,”
one of them yells back. Tiffany's black veil continues to whirl
right above her, and I see that her eyes are slightly watery.
She reaches down, grabs my hand, and pulls me up from
the ground. Then we all just stand in the middle of the
sidewalk, not looking at one another.
“Just go home,” Tiffany says finally. “Just go home.”
LESSON 8
Remembering the Inextinguishable
Light
“A wizard?!” Elena asks again; this time her eyes are wide
open and filled with doubt. “Come on, you can't believe
that. There's no such thing as wizards. That's nuts. This isn't
really the Matrix.”
Elena gets up, fixes her clothes, and stands in the middle
of her room with her hands on her hips. She looks
bewildered and disheveled, as if she has just been released
from a tornado. Her hijab, which fell off during the light
spiraling, is bunched on the floor next to me.
“I'm scared, too,” I respond. “I don't understand
everything myself, but I know what kinds of things you've
seen. I see them, too.” I stop speaking. Elena and I sit in
awkward silence. I want to say more. I want to talk about all
of it: the time slowing down, the light spirals, the black veil.
Everything. But I don't. I can't risk losing her as a friend,
especially since she seems super freaked out.
“Hey, um, maybe you should just head home. It's been a
long day. I'll ask my mother to give you a ride. I think I'm
just gonna finish some homework and go to sleep.”
I stand up, grab my book bag, and begin walking toward
the door. I am suddenly overcome by sadness. I have finally
found another wizard, but she's too afraid to accept what
we are and face what's happened. I'm terrified she's going
to abandon me, just like Tiffany, and I can't bear it. I pause
in front of her doorway, before turning around and looking
at her one last time. “This is the red pill, Elena,” I say,
referencing the famous scene from The Matrix when
Morpheus tells Neo he can either take the red pill and wake
up or take the blue one and go back to sleep. “You said you
don't want to pretend anymore. You said you wanted to be
yourself. Well, you're a wizard just like me. Whether you
choose to swallow the blue pill or the red one, you're still a
wizard. Nothing can change that. And wouldn't it be better
to try and figure out what's happening together instead of
pretending it doesn't exist?” Elena softens and we stand
looking at each other for several seconds.
“How far down does this rabbit hole go?” Elena asks,
breaking the silence.
“I don't know,” I respond, “but I guess we'll find out.”
Elena grabs a notebook and pen from her book bag and
sits on the edge of her bed. “All right, then,” she says, “tell
me everything.”
Tiffany disappears after she and her friends jump me. I
haven't seen her in weeks, but Davante insists on walking
me home from the bus stop every day after I tell him what
happened.
“Yo, that's fucked up,” he says. “That's really fucked up.
Black people need ta stick together.”
I have started liking another boy named Prince Mack, who
lives in the neighborhood and is very popular, but I still get
excited when I see Davante waiting for me at the bus stop,
since we usually hold hands on the way home. We still
haven't talked about what the hand-holding means, but I
think he likes me as more than a friend. He's even started
bringing me stuff, like candy and the other half of his
bologna sandwich from lunch, which he knows I love. On our
walks, he always wants to talk about “the black struggle”
and how black people need a new movement for equality in
America “'cause ain't shit equal.”
Today he is talking all about Malcolm X. “Ey, do y'all be
reading like black stuff ova dere at dat white school?”
Davante asks. “We readin' The Autobiography of Malcolm X,
and it's really good. It show how Malcolm X wasn't just mad
for no reason. How dem white people back in da day pushed
him to da edge.”
We haven't read anything about Malcolm X, but we are
reading a book about Martin Luther King Jr., whom I know
Davante doesn't like as much.
“Man, all dat peaceful shit he preached didn't work,”
Davante barks. “We shoulda done it Malcolm's way and put
dem honkies outta dey misery like my parents say.”
I look straight ahead and say only “Okay” in response to
Davante. He has become increasingly like his parents and
goes on and on about the “problems wit' honkies” for most
of the walk home. I don't disagree with much of what he is
saying, but once he starts talking, he doesn't stop, and he
gets mad if I interrupt. So I just walk and nod occasionally so
he thinks I'm listening carefully, but I'm really thinking
about Prince Mack.
Once we get to the back door of my apartment building, I
start shuffling through my pockets searching for my keys.
“Ey, I wanted ta ask you a question,” Davante says
awkwardly.
Oh God, I think to myself, assuming he is going to ask me
more questions about “honkies.”
“Ey,” he says again, in a much softer voice, while placing
a hand on my arm. As soon as he touches my arm, I
understand what's happening. “I wanted ta know … if it
would be okay … you know … I think you so beautiful … a
beautiful black queen … I don't know … I was jus' wonderin'
if it would be okay to kiss you.” I am so shocked by the
desire that rises in my body when he asks, even though I
thought for sure I would never want to kiss him, since he's
like a brother to me. I nod yes in eager excitement. He takes
a deep breath and then leans his head toward mine. When
he kisses me, I am overwhelmed by how good it feels. The
tingling sensations start, my heart is beating really fast, and
it feels like eighty thousand firecrackers are going off all at
once throughout my body.
“Wow,” we both say simultaneously. Neither of us knows
what to do next.
Davante starts walking down my driveway back out to the
street while stumbling over his words. “Okay, well, awright.
I'll see you tomorrow I guess. Bye!” He waves and then
starts running awkwardly away from me. I stand in front of
my apartment door for almost an hour, smiling and staring
straight ahead, and wondering when we will kiss again.
I don't have to wait very long, however, because we kiss
again the next day, and the next day after that, and for
many more days after that. I begin to look forward to
leaving school and run excitedly toward the bus. It's always
the same, him standing there awkwardly, me pretending to
search for my keys, him placing one long, lingering peck on
my lips, and then running away awkwardly down the
driveway. I always glance around to make sure no one is
looking out the window or turning into the driveway. Today,
after he kisses me, he doesn't run right away. Instead, he
asks if I'm going to the cookout tomorrow because he really
wants to dance with me, especially during the slow songs.
“Yeah,” I say. “I'm going, but my mother will kill you if she
sees me slow-dancing with you. We'll have to do it secretly
somewhere in the park.”
Cookouts are the only time we ever see all the people in the
neighborhood come together: church folks, drug dealers,
drug users, gangbangers, good students, bad students,
sometimes even the pimps and hoes. People you otherwise
never see suddenly show up at cookouts, which only happen
two or three times every summer. Unlike amusement parks
and trick-or-treating, I love cookouts. I love grilled hot dogs
and cheeseburgers, fresh Kool-Aid, line dancing, and nice
weather, all of which are present today. Everyone's here,
except for Rone, who's still locked up in juvenile detention.
My mother and I will go visit him sometime in the next few
days. This makes me feel better about him not being here.
We will do our best to bring the spirit of the cookout to him,
or at least I will. My mother will likely be her normal, angry,
strung-out self.
When I see Jessie, I run over to him and give him a big
hug. As usual, he's smiling, and says, “Echo's at da party.”
He repeats this two more times before pulling a newly
painted picture from his pocket. I unfold it and stare at it for
several seconds before asking him who it is. It's a picture of
a little black boy wearing a green shirt with a tilted gold
crown on his head. Unlike the other pictures Jessie paints for
me, this one has dark, heavy colors. There's a thick black
halo around the little boy, who has a wicked smile, as if he's
hiding something. The picture is weird and haunting.
“Who is this?” I ask again, but Jessie's parents roll him
away toward the middle of the park, where everyone is
starting to dance the Electric Slide. There is a rush of chaos
and bodies as people run to form six or seven dance lines.
Davante comes up behind me, grabs my hand, and pulls me
into the dance.
I fold up Jessie's painting, put it in my pocket, and try to
fall in line with everyone else who is already dancing. My
parents, Dre, Ms. Patty, Ms. Jannie, Davante, Pastor Aily, and
various people from around the neighborhood are doing the
choreographed dance moves in perfect unison. I once saw a
commentator on TV jokingly say, “Chapter nineteen, verse
eleven of the Book of Black People Proverbs says: ‘If thou art
borneth blacketh, thou shalt knoweth how to doeth the
Electric Slide.'” It's a joke, but also mostly true. Black
people, as far as I can tell, all vibrate to the rhythm of the
same beat. We, at least the black people in America, have
been gone for four hundred years, but Africa still calls to us
through the music. Our bodies and spirits remember. Except
for my father. His spirit must have forgotten, because he
has no rhythm at all. My father is so bad at dancing he looks
like a burnt Gumby figurine bouncing awkwardly from side
to side.
“Look at dis nigga,” Ms. Patty says, referring to my father.
“Lookin' like a damn black-ass scarecrow from da Wizard of
Oz. Aprah, tell dat nigga to go sat down somewhere.” As a
testament to her own dancing ability, Ms. Patty never
misses a beat while chastising my father's poor dancing.
She remains in sync with the group the entire time. My
mother laughs heartily before responding, “You know he
ain't neva been able to dance. Let him go on and make a
fool outta hisself, as usual.”
The Electric Slide finishes, and the next song begins to
play. Someone yells, “Ey, play dat again!” The DJ asks the
crowd if they want to do the Electric Slide again. Without
hesitation, almost everyone yells, “Yeah!” Davante, who has
been dancing and smiling next to me the whole time, yells,
“And turn dat shit up dis time!” My mother pops Davante on
the shoulder and tells him to watch his mouth before we all
start doing the Electric Slide for a second time. As I pivot to
turn toward Lake Erie, which cradles the park, I see a little
lighthouse just off the shore. I remember the day Tiffany
and I almost drowned and how, in this moment, I'm so glad
we didn't. We would have missed it all. I wonder if the
lighthouse is a promise for all the good things to come, if
I've finally made it to the other side of all the pain and
obstacles. I smile a wide toothy grin thinking about it, and a
calm hopefulness descends upon me as I move freely and
joyfully to the music. I pivot and turn one more time,
suddenly catching a glimpse of Prince Mack smiling at me
two rows back. Immediately, my own smile fades to terror
as my body locks up with embarrassment. I begin dancing
awkwardly offbeat. A million thoughts and feelings race
through my mind as I try to think of a way to get away from
Davante, who has not left my side since he got here. It's
been nice kissing Davante, but Prince Mack is so tall,
muscular, and good-looking.
When the Electric Slide finally ends, I pretend not to
notice Prince Mack continuing to stare at me. I can't believe
he's staring at me. He could have any girl he wants, so why
would he be interested in me? I look around to see if any
pretty girls are standing nearby—maybe he's really looking
at someone else. But only old people, Davante, and my
parents are around. I glance back one more time, and this
time he smiles again and waves at me. I turn around
excitedly and ask Davante if he could go and get me a hot
dog; the grill is on the opposite side of the park. When he
agrees, reluctantly, and only if I promise to go find a secret
dancing spot when he comes back, I quickly make my way
to the table that has all the drinks. I pour myself a cup of
grape Kool-Aid, which is my least favorite, and gulp it down
nervously. I feel someone tap me on the shoulder and I
know it's Prince Mack. When I turn around he says, “Ey, ain't
yo name Erika or Echo or some shit like dat? You one of dem
smart kids dat go to da white school on the West Side,
right?”
I am stunned that he knows anything about me. I'm
unable to find words, so I just stand there with my mouth
hanging open, but no sound comes out. I tell my brain to
produce words, but there are too many signals coursing in
every direction of my body for it to obey.
“I see you a little shy, huh? I like shy, quiet girls. But you
don't gotta be shy around me … You like da cookout? It's a
nice day today, huh?”
When I still don't say anything, Prince Mack takes a pen
and a piece of paper out of his pocket. “Well, here, 
write down my number,” he says. “You can call me anytime
you want.” He hands me his number and smiles before
saying, “ be waitin' to hear from you, a'ight?”
I nod and watch as he walks away. I fold the piece of
paper carefully and put it in my pocket.
I pour another cup of grape Kool-Aid, which is the only
kind of Kool-Aid they seem to have here, before someone
else taps me on the shoulder. I spin around and see that it's
Tiffany. I jump back in fear and confusion and tell her to
leave me alone, that I don't have anything to talk to her
about after what she did.
“Nah, nah, listen,” she says. “I'm not on some bullying
shit no more, not since dat day.”
I switch views and see that Tiffany's black veil has still not
descended again and covered her, but is hovering right
above.
“I'm sorry … for what happn'd. I realize now dat shit
wasn't right. When I seen dem hittin' you like dat, it flipped
some kinda switch or somethin'. I jus' … It wasn't right. I
tole all dem girls ta leave you alone. Dey ain't been messin'
wit' you, right?”
I shake my head no.
“I jus' been feelin' … I'on' know … different since dat day.
Like jus' better somehow. Like less bad about everything …
my life … da way things is.”
I stare blankly at Tiffany, suspicious of her motivations. I
can tell she wants something from me, but I don't know
what. I'm still angry about everything that happened. I don't
trust her at all, so I respond coldly, “I don't really know what
to say. Maybe you just realized dat what you was doin' was
wrong. Maybe you feel better since you're no longer going
after someone you've known since we were little. I would
feel better about that, too.”
Tiffany drops her head in dissatisfaction at my response.
Maybe she didn't just want something from me; maybe she
needed something. Forgiveness? A way to understand the
black veil? An understanding I know I can't give her. I
suddenly feel bad at my cold response and search for
additional words to try to make her feel better.
“Look,” I say, “I can't tell you why you feel different, but if
it feels good not to beat people up, maybe keep not doing
that and you'll continue to feel better.”
Tiffany nods. “Yeah, a'ight. So we cool?” she asks while
extending her hand.
I stare at it for a few seconds before finally shaking it and
replying, “Yeah, we cool.” I watch as Tiffany starts walking
away, before stopping and abruptly turning around.
“Oh yeah,” she says, “one more thing. I seen you talkin'
to Prince Mack … and I just wanted to tell you, you should
stay away from him. He ain't no good person.”
I nod as if I agree, but I become very angry when she
finally walks away. Now I see what she wants, I think to
myself. She wants Prince Mack and thinks I'm going to steal
him away like what happened with Jessie. I knew she
couldn't be trusted. I take another sip of Kool-Aid and shake
my head in disgust and satisfaction at having figured out
what Tiffany was up to. I become even more determined to
make Prince Mack my boyfriend.
I have been fantasizing about Prince Mack, who's four years
older than me, since the day I first saw him last year outside
the penny candy store. He is shouting into the pay phone,
telling someone to “go pick my daughter up for me, 'cause I
got somethin' I gotta do.” It's a hot summer day, so he is
wearing basketball shorts and a basketball jersey with no Tshirt underneath. I stand on the sidewalk, staring at the
bulging muscles of his arms, and peek down at his calves,
marveling at how perfectly sculpted they are. I have never
seen a person in real life that looks as good as he does.
After a few seconds, he slams the phone receiver back into
the cradle before heading into the penny candy store. I
timidly walk in after him, trying to stay invisible, and
continue to observe him out of the corners of my eyes. He
buys a bagful of candy before darting out of the store. I look
around and see that I am not the only girl watching him. I
race home, throw the bag of candy I bought myself on the
kitchen table, and lock myself in my room.
I lie on my bed and imagine kissing and touching Prince
Mack while rubbing myself down there. The urge to touch
Prince Mack is so intense, I reach over, grab a pillow, place
it between my legs, and pretend that it is Prince Mack. I
touch the pillow all over while intensely rubbing myself on
him. I rub desperately, trying to relieve myself of the
tension flowing through my body. I start to feel sensations I
have never felt before. I rub faster and press the pillow
deeper into me. I start breathing harder and moaning
uncontrollably. I don't know if anyone can hear me, but it
feels so good, I don't care. Suddenly, I feel an intense rush
of pleasure take over my entire body. Pleasure that releases
the tension I have been building for so long. I hold the pillow
in my arms, resting. I stare at the ceiling and smile while
also sweating and breathing hard. I don't understand what
has just happened, but I know I want to do it again, need to
do it again. I feel guilty for rubbing myself in the same way
the flesh man down the street did, but this feels different. I
feel alive after doing this, not sunken, embarrassed, and
dirty like with him.
Now, after the cookout, I think about Prince Mack even
more while using the pillow over and over. I pull his phone
number out of the top drawer of the nightstand and wonder
what it would be like to talk to him on the phone. I'm too
afraid to call, so I put the number back in the drawer and
fall asleep. I frequently fall asleep after using the pillow,
from the exhaustion of all the moving and grinding. I fall
into a very deep sleep—so deep, I almost feel like I'm in a
coma. In one dream, I'm back at the park where the cookout
happened, but only Jessie and I are there. We are sitting by
the lake looking at the gray lighthouse, which shines the
brightest, most exuberant light I've ever seen. The sky is
dark with clouds of various colors, just like I saw on the
night of the spades party and at Elena's house. The clouds
move slowly, meandering, seemingly not in a rush to get
anywhere. Jessie calls out jokingly, “That's my cloud.” We
both laugh, and Jessie looks at me like he did the day in the
shack. I bashfully
look away while the officer looks through my book bag
and purse. My mother glares at the officer while handing
over her jacket and purse and saying, “I hate comin' here.
Don't do nothin' but brang back bad memories.” My mother
and I go through this every time we come to visit Rone here
at the juvenile detention building, which is always so grimy
and cold, with sad, angry people everywhere. I hate coming,
but we can't leave Rone alone. He's always so happy to see
us. As soon as we walk through the door into the visiting
area, his face lights up and he smiles excitedly. The guard
tells us we have fifteen minutes, and I instantly feel
pressured to say everything I can think of before we have to
leave. My mother has been spinning further and further into
her own web of insanity, but she tries to be on her best
behavior. Right now, her best is drinking coffee and staring
up at the sky in silence. I ask Jessie what he's thinking
about. “I was just wondering when J is gonna get here,” he
says. I look at him in confusion until I see a figure dressed in
all white start to descend from the sky. The figure is
celestial, surrounded by a white halo around his entire body
that shines so brightly, I have to shield my eyes from the
glare. The halo disappears once the figure lands on the
ground in front of us. Jessie stands up and slaps hands with
the figure, who I now see is Jesus.
“J, I got yo Vienna sausages. Here, man.”
Jesus grabs the can from Jessie and says, “Duuude!”
Jessie responds, “Duuuuuude.”
They both laugh before hugging.
“Well, I gotta get going. You know I can never stay long,
since this isn't my world anymore. Just came for the
sausages.” Jesus then looks directly at me and says, “By the
way, I found out about these delectable treats from
watching over you and your family all these years. I can't
come back and intervene, but I try to send signals here and
there. It's the least I can do as the Savior of the Universe.”
Jesus smacks his teeth and points his finger at me. “I mean,
amirite?” he says while laughing and placing the can of
Vienna sausages in the pocket of his white robe. Jesus puts
his arms out, rolls his head up, and rises back into the sky
while saying in a heavenly voice, “Remember, the light is
always there. It never really goes out.” His voice suddenly
fades and he admits, “They make me say that. I don't really
know if it's true.” He laughs hysterically to himself until he
ascends out of sight.
“He's just joking,” Jessie says. “He can be a handful in
whatever mystical world this is … But he's right, you know
… It never goes out. You cain't never get rid of it.
Sometimes you cain't see it if the clouds or something else
covers it, but it's always there … the light.”
I look at Jessie in total confusion and ask him
what he eats in here.
“Boxed mashed potatoes and meatloaf,” Rone says. “And
yes, it's as nasty as it sounds. It tastes like food you'a get
out of a dumpster … Ey, also, I was gon' ask if you can put
twenty dollars on the commissary so I can get some chips
and candy bars and stuff like that.”
I say yes and watch as he lights up again, smiling
chummily like he always does when he gets what he wants.
He asks me how I'm doing in school.
“Made straight A's again,” I say.
“That's real good, sis,” he responds. “You always was da
smart one … I was thinkin' 'bout goin' back to school when I
get outta here in two years … Ey, I was also wonderin' …
You think I can still be a pilot when I grow up? You think I can
still do dat?”
His question overwhelms me, fills me with an irrepressible
sadness, and I fall silent. I don't know is what I want to tell
him. I don't know if it's still possible.
I roll my eyeballs all the way up to stop the tears that
have started to collect in my eye sockets. I stare at the
sullen faces of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and
James Madison hanging on the walls of this unimaginable
place. I think about the irony of these white men putting the
words liberty and justice in the Constitution while owning
slaves and creating a system that keeps my brother caged
like an animal in here. I become enraged. I feel like I need to
do something, need to change it or make it better somehow.
Even though I don't really know what to do, I turn to my
mother and tell her I need to stop the time. She is so empty
and dead inside, she simply nods and says, “Go on 'head,
den,” while continuing to stare blankly out the window.
“What you mean stop da time?” Rone asks.
I don't respond and begin to wind the time down,
watching as
Jessie grows cold and dark. Suddenly, all the lightheartedness of the previous moment filters out of his eyes
and he speaks with urgency. “Listen to me. I wish I could
explain it all to you, but I can't. You have to make a decision.
You have to—”
Before he finishes his sentence, he starts stuttering like
he does sometimes in real life.
“I don't understand,” I respond.
“Listen, you have to—”
But he can't get his words out. I hear the distress in
Jessie's voice and become frightened at what he is trying to
tell me. Suddenly, he reaches into his back pocket and pulls
out a folded piece of paper. I see that it's the same picture
of Jesus that we have hanging above our stove at home.
Jesus and the three stooges of democracy, I think to myself.
The time has wound down to a halt, freezing Rone and
everyone else in the detention hall except our mother, who
still stares out the window in a daze. I look again at Rone. I
start talking to him, pleading with him in his frozen state.
“Please, Rone,” I say. “Please, you have to change. You can't
keep going like this. I hate seeing you like this.” Tears start
falling from my eyes. I grab his frozen hands and tell him
how much I love him and how I remember who he was as a
little boy before the black veil descended, before he lost
himself in the madness of our environment. My mother
watches me pleading with Rone, seemingly unaffected, and
continues smoking her cigarette. A few minutes later, she
mashes the butt into the ashtray, grabs one of my hands,
and then rolls her eyes all the way up into their sockets, as
far up as they will roll. She takes a deep breath, the deepest
breath I've ever seen her take, like it will be the last one she
ever takes. Her entire body inflates with air. She exhales
and begins saying, “Ancestors of da past, present, and futa'
come thru, speak thru. Come thru to dis time and place,
here and now. Speak what is needed.” I look up again at all
the pictures
that Jessie has painted for me and ask him why he
painted this sad-looking boy in a green shirt. “I don't need
any sad pictures,” I tell him. “Look where I live.” Jessie
doesn't respond and keeps looking at the lighthouse. The
colorful clouds continue grazing across the sky like cows in a
pasture. It's one of the most beautiful sights I've ever seen,
but I feel deeply frustrated with Jessie. I start yelling at him.
“I'm so mad at you! How could you leave me like this? Just
tell me what it all means. Just tell me!” I start crying, and
Jessie puts one of his hands gently on my back, which
relaxes my entire body and stops my tears.
“Look,” he says after sitting quietly, “I love you and I
always have. I'm gonna be here for you no matter what
happened to me. I just need you to remember that the light
in there,” he says while pointing at my chest, “never goes
out. Remember that, okay?”
The eighth lesson of wizard training is that there is a light
in the center of our souls that never goes out, even in the
darkest, bleakest times, because we are keepers of strength
and possibility in this world. If that can be internalized
during tough times, a wizard can remain risen and
transformed instead of sinking to the very bottom of the
darkness. This lesson is hard to remember in the moment,
though—very hard to remember.
I stand up and tell Jessie I have to get home and do my
homework and that I still don't know what he's talking
about. I start walking home. When I've walked a few feet, I
turn around to see Jessie one more time, but when I glance
back, he has disappeared and the light in the lighthouse has
gone out. The clouds in the sky turn dark gray and blue. The
temperature dramatically drops below freezing, when
moments ago it was warm and balmy. I zip up my jacket and
suddenly feel myself being sucked through some kind of
portal, until I wake up, gasping for air, back in my
apartment, where
my brother's head begins to roll slowly up toward the
pictures on the wall. So slow, it looks like he could be in The
Exorcist. He looks hypnotized as he stares with glazed eyes
at the wall. Suddenly, each of the pictures begins to uncurl
and speak. They are old white men, but they don't sound
like the white people I see on TV and in movies. Instead,
they sound like people from my neighborhood, like my
father and his friends. One by one, they speak directly to
Rone:
Gotta wake up, Rone.
Gotta see it all differently.
Gotta wake up fast.
Gotta find da light inside.
Gotta do it soon, befo' it's too late.
After each of them speaks, they return to their sullen,
frozen positions. Time speeds up and everyone slowly starts
moving again. Rone looks dazed and says, “Ey, I swear dem
pictures was just talkin' to me, man. Sayin' how I gotta wake
up and shit. You ain't see that?… Man, dis place drivin' me
crazy!”
I wonder what it all means, how it will impact Rone. If it
will help him change in some way. “I didn't see it, Rone,” I
say, “but it sounds like good advice to me.” Before I can say
anything else, the guard interrupts and tells us that our
fifteen minutes have passed and we have to leave. We are
not allowed to give Rone a hug for fear that some kind of
contraband might be passed from visitors to inmates. So we
all stand up in a circle looking at each other. My mother
returns briefly from her blank state to acknowledge the
sadness of the moment. We lock eyes. She and I nod warmly
at Rone, giving everything in those nods, because they are
all we have to give. We give our love, our hope that he can
turn it around, our deep sadness at having to leave him
there, alone in his orange jumpsuit. We would nod a
thousand more times to show him how much we still love
him.
So we all stand in a circle unable to touch, wanting to stay
with each other for a little while longer because even in this
madness, there is still safety in us being together. I nod
again at Rone, and I see he understands. He knows what
has been given. His eyes soften and he nods back. My
mother says, “Be good, Rone,” and I borrow her words,
“Yeah, be good, Rone.”
LESSON 9
Planting a New Story
“Do you think you'll ever get locked up?” Elena asks. “Like
your brother? I visited my oldest cousin in prison before we
left Iran. He was an oil smuggler and got caught, beaten,
and arrested. He was always trying to get rich, like my
grandfather, but never went about it in the right way.
Always looking for quick ways to make a lot of money. He's
still in that awful prison. I think about him all the time and
about what I'd do if I ever had to go to prison. If I ever
ended up there, I hope it's for something I believe in, to help
other people. I'd be a woman warrior, a Muslim hero. We
could use one of those in the world for sure.”
I laugh and respond, “Well, I hope I never get locked up,
for any reason, even justice. Maybe that makes me a
coward. I don't know, but juvenile detention is the worst
place I've ever been in my life. I imagine prison must be ten
times worse. I never want to go, and I hope my brother gets
it together when he gets out so he doesn't have to go to
prison, either.”
Elena and I are sitting in the field by the train tracks
watching the clouds swirl and churn, brewing thunderstorms
that will pour down any moment, which is what we have
been waiting for. The clouds form a dark canopy right above
us. It's the middle of the day, but it almost feels like
nighttime. We love the moodiness of the whole scene and
the way the air smells right before a storm. Jessie is with us
and sits painting in his chair while Elena and I lie sprawled
out on the jagged grass. Her hijab sits folded next to us.
“It's still part of me, but I don't need to have it on all the
time,” Elena says. “It's kind of like my cape, you know, a
complement to the whole woman-warrior-hero persona.
There are billions of Muslims in the world, and I'm one of
them, right here under people's noses. When they look at
me in my hijab, they can't escape the reality of diversity in
the world. I like that, being the reminder. Plus, it makes me
feel like I'm part of something bigger than myself—my
family and the land I come from. Me and my people, united
for all to see, demanding the world recognize who we are.”
I glance over at her hijab, which she's taken off to feel the
wind in her hair, and am inspired by my badass warrior best
friend.
We are both fifteen now and go to different schools, but
Elena still comes over sometimes on the weekends. Henry
E. Tarver Public School, the black high school on the East
Side, has honors classes, unlike the black middle school, so I
transferred back over. Elena goes to a private high school on
the West Side. Her mother drops her off on her way to the
medical school, which is two or three miles from my
apartment, and complains the whole drive over about how
“dangerous and unsafe this neighborhood is.” Elena's
mother speaks about the East Side like it's another country,
like it's not just right across the bridge. In many ways, she is
right. I wish someone would do a documentary to show the
rest of the world what America is really like for some of us. I
wonder what people around the world would think if they
saw how racially divided everything still is here. Elena never
says anything about how poor and broken-down my
apartment is, especially compared to where she lives, but I
know she must be shocked at the difference, too.
We always pick up Jessie when we go to the field, which is
still one of my favorite things to do. Now we are resting in
the grass, staring up at the clouds, talking about wizard
things. “Holy shit, I just had an epiphany,” Elena says. “We
are living in The Matrix: Cleveland Edition. We can stop
time, like the actual ticking time. That's so rad.” After the
portal first opened in Elena's room, Elena eventually comes
all the way around to accepting her wizardry and we start
practicing miracles together. We have learned many things
from our training: that saying Show me the light stops you
from seeing other people's black veils, but not your own if
it's covering you; that once it's wrapped around you, it
merges totally with your energy field. We also learn that you
can only stop time before a miracle. If a miracle is not
performed while the time is stopped, it starts speeding up
back to normal on its own, which means you can't take
advantage and do bad things in the timeless space. As it
turns out, the portal to the in-between opens on its own
when someone is in distress or when a message needs to be
transmitted to help a wizard grow.
There's still a lot we don't know, however. I wish we had
someone else to teach us more things, but my mother has
continued her descent and says she still doesn't want me to
participate in “all dat wizard shit,” even though she helped
me reach Rone at the juvenile detention center two years
ago. “It ain't gon' lead you nowhere productive. Only dat
schoolin'a do dat,” my mother says repeatedly. Rone will be
getting out in a few days. It's been two years since the
miracle my mother and I performed at the juvenile
detention. Elena and I have been thinking about what
miracles we can perform to help him stay out of trouble. I
feel a surge of happiness thinking about Rone's upcoming
release, which means all the people I love will be free soon.
Maybe we can all come to the field again, like old times.
I gaze over at Jessie and remember the time before the
accident. He looks so peaceful now, painting quietly in his
wheelchair, occasionally looking up at the clouds as if he is
waiting for something. My mother says you have to be
grateful for the people you knew in childhood since the
people you meet as an adult “is already ruined and no good,
but you always 'member da innocence of peoples you knew
as kids.” I decide I will cherish every Jessie I've known—I
know who he was as a child, who he was before the
accident, and who he is now. I'm so happy he's here. Even
though things have changed, I still feel safe and protected
whenever I'm near him, like that day in the shack. “Since we
live in the Matrix, maybe Jessie's like your Oracle, watching
out for you. He knows when Agent Smith is nearby,” Elena
said earlier today. I don't know if that's true, but I know he's
still my person.
Elena's my person now, too. I've learned you can have
more than one person be your “person.” It's such a relief to
find people who are just like you. Elena is a quirky, resilient
warrior who has managed to maintain an open heart. I
suddenly have an overwhelming urge to reach out and grab
her hand. My whole body starts buzzing with discomfort at
the thought of it, but I force myself to do it anyway. I
squeeze her hand, signaling my gratitude at having found
her. When the tingling sensations start unexpectedly, I
begin to pull my hand away in embarrassment, but Elena
rolls her head toward me and kisses me on the lips. It's the
softest, sweetest kiss I've ever received. Afterward, it feels
like a thousand butterflies are fluttering through my body.
We both stare at the sky, unsure what to do next. I peer
over at Jessie with uneasiness, worried he might have seen
us and remembering our unfulfilled kiss in the shack. I
wonder if he remembers also.
The tension between Elena and me builds, until she takes
her hand out of mine, and starts pointing at the sky. “Look!”
she shouts. “The rain's starting.” Elena grabs her hijab and
wraps it around her head to protect her hair.
I look up and see a few raindrops break away from the
clouds and land on our faces. We know more will follow, and
we rise in anticipation of the downpour. I notice that the
clouds seem to mold and stretch themselves as if they were
stretching around some kind of round object, trying to poke
through.
“Hey, look!” I say, pointing at the sky excitedly. A black
crow pokes its head through a hole in the cloud, but the hole
seems to be too small so it struggles to pull the rest of its
body through. After lots of wiggling, it finally manages to
pass through the hole. It circles right above us and caws
several times. Jessie is transfixed.
“That was weird,” I say to them in confusion.
“Yeah, it was,” Elena says, then asks, “Do you want to do
it now? Looks like it's just about to pour.”
I nod and say, “Yeah, let's do it now.”
We quickly untie the six balloons tied to Jessie's
wheelchair. I told Elena about how we released balloons with
prayers and blessings at church when I was younger and
suggested it would be cool to do the same thing now, only
instead of prayers and blessings, we put folded copies of
Jessie's art inside. We each take two balloons.
“All right, on the count of three,” I say. “One, two—”
“Oh my God! Look at that!” Elena says while pointing
frantically at the sky. We both crane our necks awkwardly up
and see a ton of birds begin to pour through the same hole
the first one came out of. There are at least a hundred birds,
and they circle around and around right above of us, cawing
shrilly. I grow fearful inside and ask Elena what it means. “I
don't know,” she says, staring up with her mouth wide open.
We stand there watching the birds, with two balloons each
in our hands and Jessie taking in the skyline to my side.
Jessie's two balloons float up. One of them drifts away, far
beyond the train tracks, but the other one jolts right up into
the cluster of birds. We hear a loud pop! and watch as the
deflated balloon falls back to the earth. I run over and pick
up the debris. A small gray lighthouse on a key chain lies
beneath it. I stare down at the lighthouse in disbelief, chilled
by the sight of it. Elena peers over my shoulder as big, fat
raindrops begin to fall all around. “Where did that come
from?” she asks, but I don't respond.
“Miracle at Titanic” is what we call our plan to conduct a
miracle for my brothers at the movies. We pick Titanic
because it's our current favorite and we've already seen it
five times. Even though Elena hates sappy movies, she
loves the epic drama of a massive sinking boat. We decide if
it works, if we're able to get the ancestors from the inbetween to speak through Leo and Kate to influence my
brothers, it will be our biggest miracle yet.
“Can you imagine if it actually works?!” Elena asks
excitedly.
“Yeah, I know,” I respond enthusiastically. “Then they'll
have to call us something else. Not quantum wizards, but
badass boss wizards.”
Elena laughs cheerfully and says, “I love the sound of
that!”
Elena's mother has agreed to join us for the movie at the
second-run theater near my neighborhood. I don't have
enough money for all of us, so the only way our plan will
work is if Elena's parents give her the money. Initially,
Elena's mom says no, again citing the sketchiness of the
East Side. But Elena convinces her mom to “chaperone”
(and pay) for the event by agreeing to come tour the
medical school next month. “My mother is so stoked about
me coming to her work. She thinks it means I've finally
decided to become a doctor and all her wildest dreams are
coming true.” The thought of it fills Elena with boredom and
disgust, but she's committed to helping me save my
brothers.
We begin methodically planning all the details. The first
part of our plot will be to convince my brothers and a few of
their friends to go see Titanic. We convince them by
promising to also buy them tickets to see Blade or Rush
Hour next weekend. Titanic was the number one movie in
the country last year, especially with young women (and
anyone with a soul). My brothers and their friends
eventually agree to come, but say they “ain't gon' cry at dat
girly movie.” We nod our heads, but already know they
won't be able to resist. We know what's coming. Everyone
leaves Titanic in tears: men, women, children, teachers,
doctors, cops. Probably even cold-blooded killers. “Maybe
that's how we solve crime epidemics,” Elena says jokingly.
“Take the criminals to several viewings of Titanic, and
eventually they'll start singing like a canary.” We both burst
out laughing at jokes that we are sure are funny only to us.
“If the miracle doesn't work, at least it will take down their
shells,” Elena says, “and make them feel something again
deep inside.” I haven't seen my brothers without their shells
since Jessie's accident, so getting them to be a little
vulnerable would be a miracle in and of itself. Rone, who is
still adjusting to life outside of juvenile detention, seems to
have grown an even thicker shell now that he's out.
At first my brothers are very hesitant, even after I offer to
get them tickets to Rush Hour. Rone says, “Come on, Echo,
you know I ain't goin' ta see dat soft shit. And my boys
definitely ain't goin'. What you want me to see dat for
anyways?” I ignore his question and remind him that he
owes me for giving him my old Game Boy for his birthday.
“A'ight, man. A'ight den, but you gotta get yo rich friend to
buy me and all my boys tickets to Rush Hour next week.”
“Deal,” I say as we shake hands like gangsters in an oldfashioned mob movie. Only instead of mobsters, we are
siblings, and the list of what is owed between siblings is
probably just as long as what is owed between gangsters.
Rone smiles chummily, like he always does when he thinks
he's outmaneuvered me. But it is I who has outmaneuvered
you, I think to myself. And for your own benefit, fool. I pat
myself on the back for my obvious cleverness.
Once I convince Rone to go, he convinces all the others.
Rone has turned into a natural leader, thanks to his stature
and commanding personality. He is already as tall as my
father, even though he's only fourteen years old, and he
exudes confidence and charm. Dre looks up to him, like the
rest of Rone's friends, and follows his lead on many things.
Dre has already seen Titanic with Elena and me twice
before, but he agrees to come again since his soft heart still
craves connection. He has hardened for sure, but the core of
who he has always been is still there. Unlike Rone, he hasn't
lost that yet.
When we get to the theater on the day of the movie,
Elena's mother buys Rone, Dre, and their friends whatever
they want, including pop, hot dogs, nachos, and an
assortment of candy. They hold the food tightly to their
chests as if someone is going to steal it from them. “Relax,”
I say. “Ain't nobody gon' take nothin' from y'all.” A lifetime
of never having enough has convinced them otherwise, so
they refuse to release their grip on the snacks and candy
until it's all gone. My brothers and their friends are on their
best behavior, as I've warned them they better be. They
move quietly through the movie theater, not displaying their
usual rowdiness. They attempt to call Elena's mother Ms.
Farahmand out of respect, but they slightly mispronounce it
calling her Ms. Far-med instead. Neither Elena nor her
mother corrects them, both being charmed by their effort.
I wonder if Elena's mom is uncomfortable being around so
many black people. The group of us must look strange to
outside observers: five black boys, a black girl, and two
Persian women in hijabs, casually bouncing through the
theater. Elena's mother does not seem at all fazed by the
whole scene; she's much more down-to-earth than she was
at that first dinner. Elena said her mother was thrilled to
chaperone us at the movie since she feels like Elena never
wants to hang out with her anymore now that she's in high
school. “She'd hang out with me in the bathroom if I invited
her,” Elena says jokingly. “I figured a movie would be much
more pleasant.” We both burst out laughing, but stop when
we see Elena's mom glaring at us. “Have you already called
the guy about Part Two of the plan?” Elena asks.
“Yes,” I respond. “I scheduled it for Saturday afternoon.
He lives not too far from you.”
Miracle at Titanic is only the first part of our mission. Next
step is to try to move my family out of the neighborhood
we've been trapped in all my life. I've been applying for
apartments on the West Side for months. I plan to use all
the money I make working at the Cleveland Clinic after
school on the first month's rent and deposit. I have already
visited over ten apartments in white neighborhoods, with
Elena joining me sometimes, and have been turned down
for all of them.
Before we visit, I call and ask them if they accept Section
8, the government program that helps poor people pay their
rent. If they say yes, I quickly hurry to the apartment and try
to convince the landlords to rent to me and my family. I lie. I
tell them that we are quiet people. That my brothers love
school and are good students, like me. I tell them my
parents are retired and live on Social Security disability, but
they worked all their lives. My father was a welder and my
mother a seamstress. I watch the faces of the white people
twist as my brown flesh walks through the door. I see how
quickly the decision is made. How quickly they see “people
like me” as trouble, even when Elena and her almost-white
body (without the hijab) is standing right next to me.
I hope this place on Saturday will finally be different. I
have a good feeling about it since the man was so nice over
the phone, even after I tell him where I currently live and
that we are on Section 8.
The three-bedroom house is at the end of a tree-lined street.
Elena and I walk up the stairs of the small porch and ring
the doorbell. A middle-aged white man answers the door; he
tells us he is an attorney, and this rental property is his. We
follow him into the kitchen, a kitchen so luxurious, so
sparkling, I'm afraid to touch anything. I can see that there
is a fireplace in the living room. I always wanted a fireplace,
I think to myself, so I can snuggle up and read all the books
in the world. I see from the kitchen window that a freshly
cut, beautifully manicured lawn wraps around the property. I
imagine my brothers and me sitting out on the lawn smiling,
drinking Kool-Aid, and talking about what it was like to live
on the East Side all those years ago. The neighborhood is
bursting with big weeping willows that invite reflection and
deep thought, and also shield the houses and the people
from the harshness of the sun. There is very little green
where I live, which quietly hurts us. I know the importance
of living near growing, thriving things, which is nature's way
of reminding us of all that is flourishing and possible in this
world. My family can flourish in this house surrounded by
majestic weeping willow trees. I watch a squirrel scurry
down one of the trunks before
turning and making a wide circle around the second
concession stand, which has a long line of people waiting to
buy snacks. I stop in front of the bathroom and ask Elena to
save me a seat. When I come out of the bathroom, I bump
into Prince Mack. He's here with two friends to see Rush
Hour. “Ey! Echo, right?” he asks curiously. “Ey, why you ain't
neva call a nigga? Usually I cain't stop dese girls from
callin'. What, you really, really shy?” I am mesmerized by
how good Prince Mack still looks. I notice the fullness of his
lips as he licks them slightly with his tongue. His brown skin
is so buttery and smooth he glistens, like he is always
standing directly in the sun. And his skin stretches so
perfectly over his toned muscles, I have to pull my eyes
away to keep from staring. Prince Mack is right, I am shy,
especially when it comes to boys. I just know I'm a beast
and boys don't like beasts, except Davante and Jessie.
Davante and I broke up the summer before we got to high
school. The thrill of kissing him wore off, and I started to feel
like I was kissing my brother. He was very disappointed, but
he said he would find other girls in high school and I would
be jealous. I smiled and wished him luck with all his other
girls. He was very upset I wasn't mad, but I'm glad we are
no longer seeing each other.
Being a shy beast isn't the reason I never called Prince
Mack, however. I just got spooked after my dream with
Jessie by the lighthouse, like I should stay away from him.
Seeing Prince here at the movie theater, two years later,
makes me feel like I made a mistake. We could have been
together all that time if I hadn't let my fear get the best of
me. I wonder if he will give me a second chance.
“I'on' know, I jus' be studyin' all da time,” I say shyly. “I
forgot. Dat's all.”
Prince Mack smiles and says, “Oh yeah, you one a' dem
smart girls. I like smart girls … Well, look,  gi'u my
numba again a'ight?” I nod my head yes as he starts writing
down his phone number. “You betta call me dis time,
a'ight?” he asks in a sultry voice while biting his lower lip.
“Okay, I'll call you tomorrow,” I say decisively.
He hands me the piece of paper and then leans down and
lingers in front of my face before kissing me softly on the
lips. The tingling sensations start immediately and I feel like
I'm going to explode. One of his friends leaves the
bathroom, and as they walk away I hear his friend say,
“Man, how many girls do you got, dude? Gimme one, man.”
I get a sinking feeling in my stomach when I hear them both
laughing, but I push the fear and doubt out of my mind and
decide I will still call him tomorrow. He may have had other
girls before, but I'm going to be the best girlfriend he's ever
had.
By the time I get to the theater, the movie is about to
start. I search in the darkness for my brothers and Elena.
When I finally spot them, I make my way to my seat. Elena
asks what took so long. “Nothing,” I whisper. “I just ran into
somebody … an old friend … by the bathroom. We were just
catching up.” We both turn toward the movie screen and
watch as
the middle-aged white man moves furtively around the
kitchen. He offers us a glass of water or lemonade. We
decline and continue to look around the house. “This is a
very nice kitchen,” I say, enamored. I can tell he is
confused. He knows he and I are not equal, because of the
racial difference, but he doesn't know what to make of
Elena. He keeps looking over at her every time he asks a
question.
“So which one of you applied for the house? Are you
together or … are you related … what questions do you
have about the house?” he asks while looking eagerly in
Elena's direction. Elena and I both pause briefly, trying to
determine if there is some angle we should play in this
moment; if we should be dishonest and use Elena's
perceived almost-whiteness to our advantage. I can tell
Elena is thinking the same thing, but what would happen
when the time came to move in? I think to myself. And me
and my whole black family showed up instead of Elena.
“I applied,” I say confidently after a few moments,
realizing there's no way around telling him it was me. “It
would be for me and my family. My mother and father and
two brothers.”
I watch disappointment roll over his face like clouds
before a storm. “Oh,” he says simply.
We are all quiet
as the first scene of Titanic unfolds. We are glued to the
screen as it all happens: the greatest steamship of its time
soars through the open ocean while one of the actors
proclaims triumphantly, “Not even God himself could sink
this ship.” Elena, Dre, and I know he is wrong, but I'm not
sure if Rone and his friends know what is going to happen.
They just know it's a movie about “some people on a boat.”
We watch Rose and Jack—Kate and Leo—fall in love all over
again: Jack's courageous attempt to save Rose from jumping
off the back of the boat, their subsequent frolicking and
dancing in the “lower-class” cabins, and their steamy
hookup in the back of the 1912 Renault Type CB Coupe de
Ville. My brothers giggle when Kate's hand pushes against
the window. I can tell they are slightly embarrassed and
guilty, which he tries to hide by looking past me at the
painting over the kitchen sink, but I can tell by the guilt in
his eyes, he knows he should give me a chance. His face
softens when I tell him I want to be a biomedical engineer
and help create lifesaving technology for people around the
world. I can see my words resonate and land on his soft
parts. Elena acts as my wing woman, confirming everything
I say. “Yeah, she's the smartest person I know. You probably
won't find a better tenant.”
Elena and I keep pressing into him with all the passion
and hope in the world. I can see the ambivalence in his
eyes. He wants to help. He believes the lies I tell him about
my family. “My mother and father have doctors'
appointments, so they couldn't come. I just got off work
myself, but I had to come take a look. The place sounded so
amazing and affordable in the ad.” I use my proper, whitegirl English, enunciating all my syllables just like I did on the
phone. No one has taught me how to do this; I instinctively
know this is what is needed to persuade this man—I need to
speak to him in his native language and not like how my
parents and the people in my neighborhood speak. I press
further, trying to convince him, trying to work against his
conditioning about “people like me.” This house, this new
neighborhood, will be a portal that helps change the
trajectory of my brothers' lives. This will catapult them into
orbit around the mantle of possibility instead of being stuck
in the underbelly of American society. I just know it. I infuse
my voice and eyes with sincerity and warmth. He keeps
softening as
the boat starts to sink. When my brothers and their
friends realize the reality of what is about to happen, I am
surprised by their response. One of Rone's friends turns to
him and says, “Nigga, dey all 'bout to die! Nigga, what da
fuck?! Dis shit sad as fuck.” We watch as the band decides
to stay and continue playing while the ship sinks, which is a
final effort to provide some grace and decency in such a
barbaric moment.
Another one of my brother's friends whispers, “Aww shit,
nigga, da band gon' stay on da boat. Nigga, dat's some
gangsta shit. I wouldn't do dat shit, but I respect it.” His
voice cracks and Rone responds, “Nigga, you cryin'?!”
The friend recoils in terror, saying, “Nah! Nigga, I ain't
cryin', but I ain't 'spect dis shit to be so sad.”
Elena's mother leans over in shock and whispers, “Please
stop using that word and no more talking or curse words
during the movie!”
“Yes, ma'am,” they all reply in unison.
The boat finally sinks, and Rose lies on a plank in the
middle of the frigid ocean while Jack holds on to the edge of
the plank, having decided there isn't enough room for both
of them.
Dre says loudly, “Man, come on, why she don't let him on
top of dat wood, man? You can fit a whole basketball team
up dere!”
They are all very upset that Jack does not join Rose on top
of the plank. They feel like it's some kind of inexcusable
injustice that must be rectified before the movie ends. They
are so upset, they can't stop talking about it, even after
Elena's mother tells them again to be quiet.
Another friend blurts out, “Man, dat's foul! Both dey asses
can definitely fit on dat piece of wood. Dat's a big piece of
wood! Shit, nigga, you best believe I would have climbed
right up on top of dat bitch and been chillin', waitin' fo dem
lifeboats.”
They all start laughing, but I can tell that their shells are
lowered and they are all visibly shaken by how the story is
unfolding. I look over at Elena and nod my head, indicating
it's time for us to start the miracle. We wind the time down
and follow my mother's instructions for calling the
ancestors. We watch as Jack and Rose, as well as everyone
in the theater, begin to move in slow motion. Elena and I
check to make sure my brothers' eyes are wide open,
looking straight ahead, locked
on the painting hanging over the kitchen sink, which is a
picture of Martin Luther King Jr., “who inspired him to
become a civil rights attorney and fight for justice in the
world.” He stares at the painting as if he's trying to reassure
himself, remind himself of something. Then he turns and
locks eyes with me. I transfix him in my gaze, which is no
ordinary gaze, but the gaze of a thousand ancestors
traveling across time and space to assist me. Elena watches
alertly nearby while also projecting as much warm, focused
energy as she can in the middle-aged white man's direction.
We envelop him. We compel him to bend to our will. I see
Elena nod her head from the corner of my eye, and we
begin to freeze time. It winds down and down and down
until the man stands frozen, gazing up at Martin. Suddenly,
Martin begins to unfold from his position and looks directly
at the man and begins speaking. I am overwhelmed hearing
his famous voice pour out
of the movie screen. Leo and Kate both sit on top of the
plank and stare in our direction. It feels like they are looking
directly at us. It's amazing and creepy at the same time.
They hold hands and then begin speaking, alternating after
each sentence:
We have already said you have to wake up
We are rooting for you
We are always rooting for you
We want to try a different approach
We want to show you what you could become
The highest version of yourself
I assume they must be talking to Rone, because he is the
only one we have tried this miracle on. The screen suddenly
goes totally black. Elena grabs my hand as we both stare at
the black screen in anticipation of what will come next. After
a few seconds, a man in a white shirt begins to slowly
materialize on the screen. The camera is zoomed all the
way in on the man, from the chest up, and the image is
blurry at first until it comes all the way into focus. We see
that it's an older version of Rone in a pilot's uniform. He
stares straight ahead and says, “Watch this.” The screen
switches to a view of older Rone soaring high above the
earth in a Boeing 757. He looks so professional flying the
plane through the clouds. When he lands, he announces
proudly to the cabin, “Ladies and gentlemen, we have safely
arrived back in Cleveland, Ohio, which happens to be my
hometown. Some may call it the ‘mistake by the lake,' but I
call it one of the greatest cities in the country. On behalf of
American Airlines and the entire crew, it's been our pleasure
to serve you this evening. This was my very first flight,
which I guess I can tell you now that we've landed safely.
It's been my dream all my life to be a pilot, and so it's been
an honor to fly with you today.”
Me, my parents, and Dre are all onboard for his first flight.
We race to the front of the plane and give him a big group
hug and tell him how proud of him we are and how we all
knew he could do it.
The camera zooms in on Rone's face and upper body
again, and he looks straight ahead and says, “Tell yourself
this story instead.” The screen suddenly goes black again.
When it comes back on, a man at a podium begins to
materialize. We see that it is Dre and he is preparing to read
from his book of poems, Lessons from the Rising. Dre looks
directly out into the theater and says, “It's not too late.”
Then we watch as Dre travels all over the world, sharing his
poetry and the life experiences that inspired it. He is proud
and compassionate. On the last night of his book tour, our
parents, Rone, and I all show up to surprise him in the
audience.
When he asks if anyone has any questions at the end of
his talk, I raise my hand and say, “Dre, I have known you all
your life. Since you were a little boy when we used to run
around that open field together and spiral prayers for
everything we wanted to be when we grew up. It has been
the great honor of my life to watch you blossom into such a
sweet, caring, compassionate, and intelligent young man
and to watch you achieve your dreams. I am so deeply
proud of you. Your words have not only inspired me, your big
sister, but people all around the world. Can I come up and
give you a hug?”
He drops his head bashfully, like he always does when put
on the spot, and responds, “Yeaaah, sis, come on up.”
I race up to the stage and give him the biggest hug any
human has ever given another. I grab the mic and cheerfully
shout to the audience, “And he's single, ladies! He's a
thoughtful Aquarius who's got his shit together. What a
catch! Don't be shy, come get 'im!”
Dre shakes his head while saying into the mic, “My sister
is a little off, but I love her.”
The audience laughs uproariously before unleashing
gleeful applause at the whole scene. The camera then
zooms back in on Dre as he stares straight ahead and
speaks forcefully with conviction
like he always has. I am astounded by the power of
Martin's words. He looks directly at the middle-aged white
man and says,
And now, here is your opportunity to help,
To open a portal where there was none before,
To bend the arc forward, for the benefit of someone
else.
When he finishes, he turns his head back to its original
position and freezes. The time begins to unwind, and the
man starts rapidly blinking his eyes. “Oh my God,” he says,
“I feel like I just passed out.” He then chugs an entire glass
of water in front of us. I can see that the middle-aged white
man is disarmed, that he is on the verge of saying yes. I
know I have to say something to press further into him while
he is soft and receptive. I wait for the words to come, the
ones that will convince him to open this portal for me and
my family.
I begin speaking. “I promise I won't let you down,” I say.
“If you just give us a chance. No one seems to want to rent
to us over here, but my family and I would take real good
care of your place. And you don't have to worry about us
paying the rent every month since we have Section 8. They
pay on time every month. I know people don't usually
accept Section 8 in these kinds of houses, so I'm real
grateful you do.”
Something about the way I say “these kinds of houses”
causes him to bristle and disconnect from me. He is
reminded of the distance between us, of the gaping
inequality. He is inspired by MLK, but only from a distance.
He will fight for our rights, but he doesn't want us in his
neighborhood, in his house. All the softness evaporates from
his face, and I know I have lost him. He can't overcome the
story he has been told about “people like me,” even though
he thought he had convinced himself he didn't believe those
kinds of racial things. The seed has been planted too deep,
all hope is lost. I look back out the window at the trees, not
wanting to leave them. Stinging disappointment settles in
my heart and Elena's eyes, which dart intensely at the man.
I can tell she wants to say something, but I furtively shake
my head no.
“Well, it was certainly nice to meet you ladies,” the man
says. “I'll give you a call if I need any further information.”
His eyes roll in
Elena's and my direction. We have just seen scenes for
both my brothers' and all their friends' possible future lives.
Now Leo and Kate are looking at Elena and me. They begin
speaking, alternating their sentences again as if they are
channeling all their words from an unknown place:
The ninth lesson of wizard training is learning to tell
yourself a different story about who you think you are on
the inside. People underestimate the power of telling a
different inside story, but it's the only real power we have to
create new lives for ourselves. Usually, all of us have some
kind of bad story seeds that eventually sprout into a spoiled
harvest. If you want a lush, bountiful harvest, you must
replant yourself from the inside. You must uproot all those
bad seeds planted by others and plant new ones that will
grow different stories inside of you.
Leo and Kate turn toward Elena's mother. They both stare
silently at her. Elena and I sit on the edge of our seats,
holding our breath, wondering what they will say next. We
both exhale when Leo and Kate finally begin speaking:
Elena and I watch as Kate and Leo return to their original
positions on the plank. When the movie finally ends, and all
the other people have left, the eight of us sit there silently
trying to process what just happened. Elena and I from a
place of knowing, and everyone else from a place of not
knowing but feeling that something unusual has happened
from the deep-inside place, the seed place. After sitting in
silence and heavy emotions while the theater workers eye
us curiously and clean around us, Rone says, “Man, I take it
all back. Dat was a life-changing movie. Like, dat was da
best movie I eva seen in my entire life. I wanna see dis
again next week instead of Rush Hour.”
“Yeah,” I say in a daze. “That was the best movie I've
ever seen.”
LESSON 10
Reading the Signals
“I'm gay,” Elena says to me abruptly and without warning.
We are sitting at her dining room table, studying and
drinking tea. “I just wanted to say it out loud to you, to
another living person. So if you are, too, you can just say it
now.”
I look up at Elena and smile. “Well, I kind of already
figured you were, since you never talk about boys and, oh
yeah, you kissed me.”
Elena chuckles.
“I don't know for myself if I like girls,” I say. “I'm confused
about that. For now, I think I mostly like boys, but who
knows in the future. Who knows.”
Elena smiles and nods enthusiastically, but I can tell she's
a little disappointed. “Well, you're the only person I've told,”
she says. “I still don't know if I can tell my mother, even
after the Miracle at Titanic. I don't know if she's ready to
accept me being a wizard and being gay. I think it would be
too much for her right now, but she has been a lot more chill
and isn't pressuring me as much since then. She was so
impressed by how respectful and polite your brothers were,
except for the cursing. She has totally dropped her daily PSA
about the East Side. She's been more quiet than usual, and
we still haven't actually talked about what happened at the
theater; I don't know if we ever will. Maybe some people will
never truly accept who they are even after a miracle like
that … Regardless, I've decided I'm going to do what I want.
I'm going to have a wife and live in Brooklyn with our seven
cats, goddammit! Pussies galore!”
Elena slams her fist on the table in triumph. I stand up
and start clapping. She laughs uproariously before sipping
her tea. I walk around the table and give her a big hug,
letting her know I support her dreams and she will always
be my person.
We eat snacks and keep talking about everything: which
colleges we're thinking about going to (I'm thinking of
Dartmouth for the majestic wilderness and cute boys, which
I've seen in the brochure, and she's thinking about Yale for
its theater program); my upcoming date with Prince Mack;
and whether the Miracle at Titanic worked. I have been
observing my brothers carefully since that day. Some things
are different, and some things are the same. They now
study with me sometimes and ask for my help on their
homework. I can see that they seem to be reaching for their
education with a new vigor and hopefulness, but they are
still struggling with the same addictions they had before the
miracle. They drink less and smoke less weed. I know they
are trying in a new way to overcome all the bad seeds that
have been planted inside them.
The new seeds haven't taken root and broken ground yet.
I see their struggles and do my part to keep pushing, to
keep watering, to keep reminding them of the futures they
saw on the movie theater screen, even though they are not
consciously aware of what they saw. Rone has been talking
more and more about how to become a pilot, so I know deep
down he was at least receptive to the miracle, which is the
most important part. The other person's receptivity. “I'll just
keep trying,” I tell Elena. “I'll try forever if I have to.”
Elena smiles warmly and squeezes my hand. “And what
about that guy? The one I don't like. I mean, who calls
themselves Prince Mack? Come on, I really feel like he's bad
news. I like Davante! Go back to him. He's always yelling
about black power, but he's got a gentle heart. I can tell …
Oh, hey, I was thinking, why don't you let me come over
there with you? I don't know, I just have a bad feeling about
it. I promise I won't make a sound. You won't even know I'm
there.”
I laugh and tell Elena of course she can't come. “What are
you going to do? Sit downstairs and do your homework
while we make out upstairs? It'll be fine. I had doubts, too,
but he was really sweet at the movie theater. I'm gonna go
tomorrow, and of course I'll call you as soon as I get home.”
“Thanks, kid,” Elena says playfully. “I'll be waiting for the
call.”
On the day I go over to Prince Mack's, I stand outside on the
sidewalk for several minutes just staring at his house, not
believing I'm about to go into the house of the best-looking
boy in the neighborhood. Me, the ugly beast. I stand on the
sidewalk so long that one of the neighbors asks me if I'm
lost. I snap out of my daze and shake my head no. I slowly
walk up the stairs. I scan my outfit again to reassure myself
I look the best I possibly could. I'm wearing a black shirt,
earrings that hang down the side of my face, a green puffy
coat, and a maroon skirt with no stockings, even though it's
very chilly and almost winter. I'm also not wearing my
glasses, which means I can't see anything far away. I squint
my eyes repeatedly to try to see in front of me as I walk to
his house. I feel ridiculous without my glasses and in this
outfit, because it's so cold, but I push all those feelings
away and ring the doorbell.
As soon as I press it, Prince Mack forcefully swings the
door open, as if he's been waiting. He says, “Nice ta see
you, gurl. You look cute.”
He smiles like he did at the movie theater, but for some
reason, in this moment, I feel weird about it. Today his smile
feels crooked and deceptive somehow. I tell myself to snap
out of it, but I can't seem to relax. Even after we go inside
and sit on the couch in his living room. He is talking,
commenting on how nice I look, and about how much he
likes sweet, shy girls. I am watching his mouth move, but I
barely hear what he's saying because my body won't stop
locking up. I feel like a brick or a stone. All my muscles
clench simultaneously. And I suddenly feel so heavy and
sunken, like the black veil is near. I have an overwhelming
urge to leave and start looking all around in confusion for
the veil. I feel like it's hovering right above me, but I don't
see anything.
I wonder why I feel this way after having fantasized about
Prince Mack for so long. He notices my unease and says we
should go up to his room and watch TV because “it's more
comfortable and relaxing up there.” He goes to the kitchen,
grabs two cans of Pepsi from the refrigerator, hands me
one, and motions for me to follow him upstairs. I carry the
can of Pepsi awkwardly, looking for places to leave it or
throw it out since I hate pop and can never bring myself to
drink it. I should ask him if he has Kool-Aid, I consider, but I
decide against asking since I don't want to disappoint him
by turning down his offering.
I follow him meekly up the stairs, noticing all the pictures
hanging on his wall along the way. Pictures of him and his
family in various places: on vacation, in church, in front of
the house. I pause when I see a school picture of his
kindergarten class. I scan the picture trying to find him,
trying to see what he looked like as a kid. I stop at a smiling
little boy wearing a green collared shirt. I wonder if it's
Prince Mack. The boy seems so familiar to me, but I can't
quite place him. I shift my head to the side like my old thirdgrade teacher, Mrs. Samuels. I scan my memory, trying to
figure it out. The more I stare at the picture, the more my
body locks up. I feel frozen, like I can't move.
Prince Mack calls from the top of the stairs, “Yo, you all
right? I know, I know, I was cute even in kindergarten. Dat's
what all da girls say.” Realizing it's a mistake to mention
other girls in this moment, he quickly adds, “I mean, dat's
what my momma always say, about how cute I was. Come
on up. I got some otha pictures in my room if you wanna see
more.”
It takes all the strength I have in my body to turn and
walk up to him. I have to shout at my brain to Move! over
and over.
I keep walking slowly up the stairs until I get to his room. I
look around and see that he has posters of Michael Jordan,
Tupac, and Snoop Dogg hanging on his walls. I sit on a chair
across from his bed, holding my back totally erect, careful
not to slump my shoulders, and still holding the unopened
can of Pepsi in my hand. I smile plastically like I do when I'm
around white people. In this moment, I come to understand
the purpose of smiling plastically. It's to hide how you really
feel inside. Right now, I feel very weird and I want to hide
the strange feelings that keep popping up. I suck all my
feelings back in, swallowing them while watching Prince
Mack move around the room. He picks up dirty clothes from
the floor, puts them in a hamper, straightens the sheets on
his bed. When he finally notices me sitting on the chair
across the room, he says, “You don't like Pepsi or
somethin'?”
Sensing the disappointment in his voice, I suddenly open
the can, take several sips, and smile plastically again.
He sits on the bed and asks, “Why you sittin' all da way
ova dere for? Come sit next to me.”
Again, I have to muster every ounce of strength in my
body to get up and walk toward him. I set the can of Pepsi
on the dresser by the bed and sit down next to him. As soon
as I sit, my mind starts flooding with words like what
happens with the light spirals from the in-between: This is
not right. Leave. Get up. Leave. Move. Get up. Go
downstairs. Move now. I'm confused by these words
because they do not match the desire I've had for Prince
Mack for the past few years. Just like the weird feelings, I
push them down and swallow them.
“You're so pretty and cute,” Prince Mack says while
moving one of my earrings to the side and kissing my neck.
I try to make his kisses feel good, like they do in my
fantasies, but this doesn't feel anything like that. Everything
feels wrong. In my fantasy, I feel safe and at ease, not
heavy and afraid like I do now. Here, in this moment, I feel
like prey, like I'm about to be devoured by a hungry wolf.
Prince Mack slides his hand up my thigh and under my skirt
and then jabs his fingers inside me mercilessly. I wince, but
try to hide the pain. When he keeps jabbing, I tell him it
hurts, but he acts like he doesn't hear me and starts
grabbing and rubbing me all over. I become paralyzed with
fear and panic. I want him to stop. I plead for him to stop
from the inside, but the words don't leave my mouth, so I
shake my head no in terror, over and over, but Prince Mack
ignores all my signals.
When he tries to kiss me on the lips, I turn my head away,
which upsets him. “Come on, girl, what you think you came
here to do? You know what's up. Now, just relax.” He pushes
my body backward, down toward the bed, but it won't bend
because it's stiff like a board. He keeps pushing until I feel
like I am moving in slow motion. My gaze follows the line of
the ceiling all the way back until I hit the pillow. My eyes
land squarely on the ceiling, and I know it is the only place I
will find refuge from what is to come. So I go there, early,
make a camp on the ceiling for the duration of the event.
He pushes my skirt up. My brain sends signals to my
hands to push it back down, to please push it back down,
but my hands don't move. They are terrorized also. All of me
is terrorized. I should have left, I tell myself. I'm so stupid for
wearing a skirt, for coming here. God, I'm so stupid.
As Prince Mack prepares to launch his full assault, I try
one more time to lift myself up somehow, but I'm paralyzed,
pinned under the weight of his massive body. He pulls down
his basketball shorts. I watch from the ceiling. I want to
scream, but no sound comes out. I pray for voices; that
someone comes home now, right now. For voices coming
from anywhere—downstairs, in the hallway, outside. But
none come, not even my own.
Prince Mack pushes himself inside me, which causes
waves of pain to shoot up the length of my body. He doesn't
fit. He's too big, but he pushes and pushes until he finally
breaks in. I shriek in pain. I whisper for him to stop, but he
just tells me to “Shhh.” I stare at the ceiling, at myself
sitting up there. At the spirit that has left my body to survive
this massacre. I think back to the Miracle at Titanic, about
the flash forward of who I could become in the future. Rone
would become a pilot, Dre would become a poet, Elena
would become a famous actress who also advocates for
human rights, and I would become a therapist. Not a
biomedical engineer like I have been planning, but a
therapist who helps other broken little girls. I see on the
screen, all the broken little girls lining up outside my office,
waiting to see me, waiting for me to teach them how to unbreak. Each little girl comes carrying a thousand pounds of
bad seeds that have been planted inside them. I look deep
into their eyes to see for myself what has been done to
them, to bear witness. They need a witness. And when I see
the sadness, which looks exactly like mine, I tell them what
must be done, about the journey that must be taken to
survive it. Their eyes swell with tears at hearing that it can
be survived. They have come to me for hope that it can be
survived.
But that hope is being ripped from me now by this
monster on top of me. He is a monster. How did I not see
this before? Prince Mack starts moving faster and faster,
moaning and breathing louder and louder until he finally
releases himself inside me. He thrusts as far and deep
inside me as he can before rolling over and also staring at
the ceiling. I wonder if he can see me up there. If he can see
all my hopes and dreams up there bursting and popping like
the balloon that day in the thunderstorm. He thinks he has
taken my body, but really he has taken my soul and the
souls of all those little girls I was supposed to help. Now it
will not be me who helps them. It will not be me, because
there is no more hope inside me. Jessie and Jesus are wrong
—the light can go out. The line of my entire life collapses to
a single point, to this single moment. This unthinkable,
unmovable moment. I know that who I was to become is no
longer possible. I dissolve myself into the reality that my life
is now over.
“Did you like it?” he asks with such ease and comfort, I
wonder if he's joking. When I don't say anything while my
exposed, lifeless body remains motionless next to him, he
starts laughing and says, “I know you did. They always do.
When you wanna come back over?” He stands up and fixes
his clothes while telling me I have to leave because his
mother will be home soon, and he's not allowed to have
girls over anymore, “so I'on' make no more babies wit' dem
lil fass tail girls.” I watch as he brushes his hair in
amusement in front of the mirror.
I push my skirt down and stand up, but I am still on the
ceiling. I tell my legs to move, and they comply. My body
moves lifelessly through space. I walk down the stairs and
look at the pictures of his family again. I wonder how such
nice, smiling people managed to raise a rapist. I wonder if
they know they have raised a rapist. I pause again in front
of the kindergarten class picture. I find the little boy in the
green collared shirt, trying again to remember. I stare until it
finally clicks. This was the picture Jessie painted for me. This
was what he was trying to warn me against. Suddenly, my
mind fills up with all the warnings, there were so many:
Tiffany telling me to stay away from him, Elena's bad
feeling, the popped balloon with the lighthouse underneath,
and the dream with Jessie and Jesus. There were so many
signs, and I missed them all.
The tenth lesson of wizard training is to pay attention to
warning signals that appear in your life. Become alert to
what the universe is trying to point you away from. If you
can wake up fast enough, certain tragedies (though not all)
can be avoided. And for those times when you don't
manage to wake up fast enough, be kind to yourself in the
storm that will follow.
I continue walking down the stairs, without mercy or
hope, pausing in front of the last picture at the bottom of
the staircase. It's a picture of Jesus; he is frozen in the same
celestial position as new Jesus in our apartment and the one
in Jessie's hospital room, with his arms out in front of him. I
stare blankly at him until I notice something move behind
me in the reflection of Jesus's glass frame. It is hovering
right above me. I know what it is. I watch as it expands to its
full wingspan, mocking me, preparing. It gives a shrill cry
before descending and wrapping itself around me. My body
jerks from side to side as it coils around my head. It
squeezes tighter and tighter until it feels like my head will
explode. All flashes of light leave my body: the flash of hope
that once filled my heart, the flash of innocence that once
poured from my eyes, and the flash of curiosity that once
ignited my spirit. There are no flashes left. There is no light
left. I bristle and grow dark inside.
My eyes glow with hate, and I ask Prince Mack's Jesus
why he didn't warn me. I wait for him to uncurl and explain
himself. When he doesn't, I call him a fucking coward and
knock the picture off the wall. Watch it fall to the ground and
shatter. See Jesus's naked, exposed face staring up at me. I
poke holes in his baby-blue eyes to remind him how it feels
to be violated. He seems to have forgotten. I knock two
more pictures off Prince Mack's wall. I watch them fall and
shatter. I am soothed by the shattering.
I turn and stare at the front door in silent despair. Then,
like a bat out of hell, I bolt into the unforgiving world, no
longer a girl or a wiza
rd, but an ir
redeemable pit of
darkness.
LESSON 11
Embracing the Ancient
The black veil has a voice. No one told me about that, about
how much it talks, constantly, nonstop, pumping my brain
full of angry words. It repeats the same things over and
over, This is your fault. You caused this. You are a beast.
Only beasts get raped. You should just end it. End yourself.
No one would care anyway. The voice hypnotizes me. I
watch its words circle around and around in my mind until I
am compelled to agree: Yes, I should end it. Yes, I caused
this. Yes, no one would miss me. Yes, I repeat again and
again.
Not only does the black veil have a voice, but it also has a
screen on which it replays the most terrible scenes from my
life: The flesh man. The thrusting. The can of Pepsi sitting on
the dresser. Jessie's accident. The flesh man. My mother on
the bathroom floor. The thrusting. The accident. The juvenile
detention hall. Thrusting. Pounding. Ripping. Tiffany and her
friends chasing me. Thrusting. Pounding. Ripping. I watch
the scenes in agony, but I don't try to stop them. I lie in my
bed watching them play out in my mind over and over.
I have been horizontal for three days. Horizontal with no
urge to eat. Horizontal with a bladder full of pee. I went to
the bathroom once, but now I just pee in the bed when I
can't hold it anymore. I pull the covers over my body so
nobody can see my soiled sheets, but they probably smell it
anyways. My eyes are also closed. They have been closed
for three days while the black veil plays out its carnival of
dark memories and thoughts.
My mother sits on the side of my bed wondering what is
wrong with me. At some point, I ask her if she sees the black
tar dripping down the walls, or if it's another trick of the
black veil. I don't ask her this out loud. Instead I try to send
a message to her telepathically, because I can't make my
jaws open to release words. She doesn't answer me, so I
assume she didn't get my message, but she keeps coming
to my room every few minutes to check on me.
She doesn't understand.
She can't find me.
She sees my body lying on the bed in front of her, but she
knows I am not there. She knows some part of me is gone,
but she doesn't know why. She doesn't think to check the
ceiling because she doesn't think that happened to me …
again. “Ecka, baby, what's wrong? Are you sick? Did
somethin' happen? Ain't like you ta miss so much school.” I
open my eyes and stare blankly up at my mother. She waits
for my mouth to move, but no words come. She keeps
talking to me, telling me things she thinks will make me
rise, make me speak again. “Davante called. Said he takin'
notes and collectin' all yo assignments. Wanna know why
you ain't been in school … Dat white girl you like ova dere
on da West Side called, too. She keep calling. Said she
wanna come over, but I tole her not to come 'cause I ain't
neva seen you like dis. I tole her you'a be up and about real
soon. She got a lotta spunk to her, jus' like you. Said if you
not back by next week, she comin' anyways. Said she real
worried about ya 'cause you ain't call her back. We all
worried about ya.”
My mother has taken down her shell, revealing the
softness I haven't seen since Jessie's accident. She's a nest
again for the first time in years. She rubs my back. Asks if I
need anything. Says she knows she hasn't been the best
mother. She knows all the ways she has failed, but she's
been trying. When she says this, I roll my eyes and turn
away from her. I become enraged and wonder what her
definition of trying is. Does it mean being constantly high or
drunk? Does it mean completely checking out of your life,
leaving your kids to fend for themselves? She's right about
one thing: She and my father have failed me and my
brothers. The black veil tells me that she is guilty also, that
she and my father should pay for their sins, should get on
their hands and knees and beg for my forgiveness. Like
everything else the black veil says, I agree. I have no
sympathy left for my parents and all their mistakes.
The sun rises and sets in an endless loop. A steady
procession of people rotates in and out of my room. My
brothers come and say, “Ecka, you ain't gon' school no
mo?” while staring down at my lifeless body in
bewilderment and confusion. I have been an anchor for
them all their lives, a North Star for how they should move
through the world. I have conducted miracles on their behalf
to try to alter the trajectory of their lives. Now I am no more,
and they don't know how to process it. My father comes. In
his drunkenness, he is unable to show up fully for me, even
now. He looks at my lifeless body and sees that I am dead,
which prompts him to speak the sweetest words he's ever
spoken to me. “I know I ain't yo biological fatha, but I luvs
ya like my own. Always have since da first day I set eyes on
ya … Hell, may even luv ya more'n dem hard-headed-ass
brothas of yourn. I'on' know what's wrong wit' ya, but I hope
ya come back to us. We cain't lose you, too. We done lost so
many. We cain't lose you, too.” The sincerity and love in his
words is almost enough to raise me from the dead. I come
down from the ceiling briefly to be close to him and listen. I
see the softness that I had forgotten was in him. I almost
smile, but I roll over and close my eyes again instead.
On day six, Ms. Jannie comes. I hear her loud voice
bellowing from the driveway. “Let me talk to da girl. The
power of da Lawd will get her up out dat bed. Believes me
'bout dat,” I hear her tell my mother. Ms. Jannie thinks she
can save me with her God. She thinks her hollow biblical
verses will move life back into me. She is wrong. She
doesn't know that I have been shattered and no longer
believe in her God, which I haven't believed in since Jessie's
accident. What God would allow these kinds of things to
happen to good people? I may be a beast, but I know deep
down I'm a good person. So what? I think to myself. It
doesn't matter anymore. None of it matters. I am beyond
saving now. I return to the ceiling when I hear her stomping
up the stairs. I know I will have to be strong to resist her
loud voice and compelling presence. I put up my shell, and
watch and wait patiently.
I expect Ms. Jannie to come busting into my room
shouting Bible verses and dousing me with holy water that
smells suspiciously like vodka. She doesn't do that,
however. As soon as she walks into my room and sees my
lifeless body, something inside her changes. She takes off
her coyote coat and tosses it on the chair across the room;
then she stands totally still. She looks different and not like
her normal boisterous, larger-than-life self. She looks like a
tree, a large redwood tree planted right in the middle of the
room. She is quiet. More quiet than I have ever seen her in
my entire life. Her large body bristles and grows even stiller.
She is solid and unmoving. Quiet and ancient. And
seemingly without her Jesus. I don't understand. She just
stands there quietly, observing me on the bed.
Then from her place of stillness, stark in the middle of the
room, her eyeballs begin to roll up toward the ceiling in the
direction of my camp. I am overcome with anxiety and want
to hide, but there is nowhere else to go. The ceiling is my
hiding place. She keeps rolling her eyeballs upward,
unnaturally so, until she sees me, camped and hiding. Her
eyes pierce through me. I feel as if she can see everything,
not just where I am hiding, but all the way to the beginning
of me and all the way to the end. It is not a regular gaze,
but the gaze of one who has known and seen things outside
of what her “Lawd” would allow.
In this moment I come to understand who Ms. Jannie
really is. No one tells me, but I know that she must have sat
on the ceiling before at some point—how else would she
know where I'm hiding? She locates me so easily and knows
exactly what is happening. I begin to wonder if her Biblethumping Jesus-loving is an act to provide her with the
illusion of certainty and stability in the world. Deep down, if
she has sat on the ceiling before, she must know there are
other ways, other truths, other powers. My mother runs
from this power and these truths with the alcohol and the
white rocks. Ms. Jannie runs with her Jesus and a religion she
knows is not always the answer. Right now, she knows it is
not the answer.
The eleventh lesson of wizard training is that a time
always comes, a crucial moment of knowing, when all
illusions must be dropped, all masks must be removed, and
the power buried deep inside must be embraced and
wielded. Ms. Jannie stands there, square in the center of the
room, knowing that this time has arrived.
“Ms. Jannie, you awright?” my mother says as she comes
rushing back into the room. “You don't look like yo'self. You
look strange. What's wrong wit' ya?”
Ms. Jannie unrolls her eyeballs from the ceiling and stares
again at my lifeless body on the bed. Without looking in my
mother's direction, Ms. Jannie tells her to go down the street
and get Mary Jacobs and tell her to “prepare fo a cer'mony.”
“Now, now, Ms. Jannie, you know I cain't do dat!” My
mother waves her hand at Ms. Jannie in terror. “We not gon'
put my baby thru dat, you heah! Not afta what happn'd to
me. No, Ms. Jannie! I says no!”
Ms. Jannie turns her head slowly in the direction of my
mother and speaks crisply and decisively. “Dis ain't 'bout
you, Aprah. Listen to me carefully—we don't got much time
left. Go get Mary Jacobs and tell her we need da cer'mony
right now.”
The seriousness and authority in Ms. Jannie's tone
overpowers my mother, who immediately rushes out of the
apartment. It's below freezing outside and the snow is just
starting to fall, but my mother rushes out with no coat and a
single purpose. That purpose propels her forward with an
urgency that prevents her from feeling the cold. She could
have been shot in the chest at that very moment and it
would not have stopped her from achieving this purpose—
she would have held the bullet in suspension, would have
stopped the time, and died after she achieved her mission.
Such is her love for me, her only daughter.
This is how my mother killed her own mother, in a cer'mony
to raise my mother from the dead after what her uncle did
to her. This is why my mother prayed her entire life that
such a cer'mony would never be needed for me. But cycles,
experiences, and patterns often repeat themselves, moving
from one generation to the next. Daughter becomes mother
so quickly. I have already decided I don't want any kids. So
at least it will end with me. At least there will be no more
daughters in our family to go through this, unless my
brothers have daughters. I spiral prayers that they don't,
that this never comes to pass in our family again.
The cer'mony, short for ceremony, is designed to help
heal someone and call her spirit back from the above plane
in the in-between. Life can become so difficult that the spirit
actually leaves the body and says “No more” before the
body has died. The ceremony must be administered within
seven days, or the person will stay permanently stuck there.
It can only be conducted by a quantum wizard who has
been trained in the ancient healing ways, who can help the
person fix what has been broken and guide them back. Mary
Jacobs is that person.
Everyone in the neighborhood knows about Mary Jacobs,
about her magic, but no one really knows her. She was
married once, but her abusive husband died mysteriously in
his sleep even though he was otherwise robust and full of
life. People only go to Mary Jacobs when they need spiritual
healing and miracles that can't be provided by a regular
doctor or a pastor and his white Jesus. Otherwise everyone
stays away from her and knows she is not quite of this
world. She never goes to church or cookouts, and she barely
speaks. She often sits on her porch in a rocking chair late at
night. She drinks from a white mug and is always looking
north, singing quietly to herself. There are always birds
around her house. On the porch or circling above. I saw her
out there once, around ten o'clock, all by herself, with a
pigeon sitting in her lap, staring into the night sky as if she
were waiting for someone to come. I walked quickly past
her, pretending not to see her sitting there, chilled by the
power she exuded.
Everyone also knows that Mary Jacobs “ain't all black.”
They say Mary Jacobs is a quarter Cherokee on her mother's
side, a quarter black on her daddy's side, and a quarter
magical on both sides. Say her mother's mother belonged to
a tribe just north of Georgia and west of North Carolina. Say
she learned all her magic stuff from her grandmother. Say
her grandmother was well traveled and studied the ancient
ways from coast to coast, absorbing as much wisdom and
knowledge as she could. Say her momma and her daddy
wasn't nothing but alcoholics, so her grandmother took her
in and shepherded her through the madness of her
upbringing. Say if it wasn't for her grandmother, she might
have turned out just like her parents, but her Cherokee
grandmother lit the way for her, planting seeds that might
not have otherwise sprouted.
Lots of black people like to brag about their mixed Native
American heritage: “Oh, you know, I'm part Indian, too. No,
for real! On my daddy side.” Mixing between black
Americans and Native Americans grew out of slavery when
runaway slaves sought refuge with Native American tribes.
As I get older, I realize that many black people don't want to
be “just black,” because they don't want all the negative
consequences that come with being only black. If you can
claim Native American heritage, you might be able to claim
lighter skin or “good hair,” symbols that elevate your status
in society ever so slightly. And when you are at the bottom,
slightly means a lot, a whole lot. I wish I were slightly
something else so that I could have some relief from the
consequences of blackness also, but I know I'm probably
“just black.” The life I am living is what happens to “just
black” girls.
When my mother reaches Mary Jacobs's apartment, the only
one with a beet-red door, she bangs so fiercely and
agonizingly that Mary Jacobs swings open the door and
screams, “Well, who is it, then? Knocking like a goddamn
fool!” Once Mary Jacobs recognizes my mother, her tone
and body language soften immediately and she proclaims,
“Lord, Aprah, you gon' freeze ta def out heah. Is you high on
dat stuff again? What's wrong wit' ya? What you want?”
My mother starts pleading and tells her that she has to
come quick. That “something is wrong wit' Ecka.” That Ms.
Jannie is there and said to “tell you we need a cer'mony.”
That we don't have much time left. The words pour out of
my mother's mouth, each racing to be quicker than the last.
Mary Jacobs observes my mother in total silence and then
suddenly begins laughing hysterically.
“Ms. Jannie? Bible-thumpin', Jesus-lovin' Ms. Jannie sent
you ova here in da middle of winta?” Mary Jacobs continues
laughing. Her whole body shakes with spasms of a glee only
she understands. She slaps her knees and clenches her
belly while proclaiming, “Is hell done froze ova? Is dese da
end of days? Ms. Jannie done come back to da ways of da
cer'mony. Aaaand you, Ms. Aprah? You done come back,
too?! Lawd, I knows dese must be da end of times. All da
fools is finally coming home to roost!” She continues
laughing until my mother interrupts and tells her now is not
the time for this and it's urgent and could she please come
right now, but Mary Jacobs continues laughing. “I tole her
big ol' country, coyote-fur-wearing ass dat she'd be back. I
tole her. She done damn near married dat blue-eyed Jesus.
And you know womens don't like to get no divorces. Lawd,
dey stay wit' dese niggas till da end of time. Well, it look like
Ms. Jannie done finally got rid a' dat nigga dey call Jesus.
Ain't nobody eva seen da nigga in da flesh, and yet he done
hypnotized da whole world. A wizard if I eva seen one.”
Mary Jacobs continues laughing hysterically as tears run
down her cheeks.
My mother stares in disbelief. Everyone also knows that
Mary Jacobs is a little scattered. At seventy, she is allowed
to be whatever she wants, to present herself as she pleases,
and take up as much space as she deems necessary. The
wisdom radiating from her glassy gray eyes and gray hair
grant her a candor and freedom no one else in the
neighborhood has. “Hol' on, Aprah. Let me put ma coat on. I
ain't gon' freeze out dere like you. I'm an ol' woman now …
And jus' so you know, I done already seen ev'rythang. Yo
gurl is trapped way up. Now dat she done stop salivating
ova Jesus, Ms. Jannie finally right about somethin'. I done
read da field. We don't got much time. She done been
brutally raped. Got her trapped way down. Far down. Got to
go and get huh. I ain't gon' tell you who done raped huh,
'cause I know you'a kill 'im if ya knows. And ain't no sense
in huh losin' you, too. She already done lost you in so many
ways. So I ain't gon' tell ya who done it. Come on in here
and hep me get ready. We can brang her back to you, and
we'a make sho don't nothin' happ'n like what happn'd to yo
momma. I always been sorry 'bout dat. But it was a mistake,
Aprah. You gon' have ta fo'give yo'self 'ventually.”
The women have always been my saving grace. I don't
realize it until this moment, watching from the ceiling, as
they prepare to do something to reach me. I don't know
what they are doing, but I know it is all for me. I watch my
mother closely. She sets the candles on the table next to my
bed and lights each one methodically. Her mouth doesn't
move at all. In fact, her jaw is clenched. I can tell she knows
what has happened to me by the newfound deftness of her
movements. Her body no longer moves in confusion around
the room—asking What happened?—but strides with the
certainty of knowing. I know Mary Jacobs, mysterious healerwizard, has told her. Though she moves with the certainty of
knowing, inside she prays to the quantum field for my
resurrection. “She has to survive it,” she repeats to herself
over and over. She spirals her prayers and thoughts with
such concentration and force, I can see them rising off her,
like mist on a river.
Those prayers alone are not enough this time, however. A
whole community of women wizards is needed. And tonight
there are three, including Ms. Jannie, who is also a wizard,
and always has been despite her love affair with Mr. Jesus
Christ.
In the beginning, my mother was also drawn to Christianity,
with its certainty and clear-cut answers. It allowed her to
mask her growing fears of what might happen to her in the
world, of who she might become, and of what she might do.
Church was her only refuge from the things her uncle did to
her. My mother would sit, alert, in the pews of Pastor
Wallace's old church on 105th and Euclid as he talked about
angels, heaven, and demons that walked the earth. “A
demon steals the body of the innocent, scars the mind and
soul of the meek, and desecrates the temple of the sacred.
He can find you anywhere. You can't hide. He might sneak
into your room at night while you sleep and find you when
you least expect it,” Pastor Wallace proclaimed passionately
in church. “And the only way to get rid of a demon is to
remove him from darkness and restore his soul to the light.”
My mother became convinced that Pastor Wallace was
talking about her uncle and that he had to be killed, so she
started hiding a knife under her pillow every night, trying to
work up the courage to restore him to the light so that he
would finally leave her alone. She saw a story on TV one
night about two siblings who murdered their parents while
they slept by stabbing them in the heart. Their parents were
probably demons also, my mother thought. If they could do
it, so can I, she repeated to herself over and over until she
gathered the courage to do what she knew she must to end
it.
Right now, my mother is both far away and very close to a
past she has spent her whole life running from. Somehow,
she is sitting here again with all the ghosts she tried to bury,
singing the same song they sang at her ceremony, a song I
never heard before. Mary Jacobs and Ms. Jannie join, while
continuing to prepare the room. They sound like dark
angels, singing the saddest, most beautiful music I've ever
heard. My mother grabs an assortment of towels and
sheets, handing them to Mary Jacobs, who builds some kind
of makeshift mat in the middle of the room. I initially watch
their preparations with excitement and confusion, but terror
rolls over me when Ms. Jannie suddenly turns off the lights
and begins walking toward me. She grabs me from the bed
and lays me on the makeshift mat. I am still watching from
the ceiling, but even if I were in my body, I wouldn't resist.
The power of their coordinated actions makes it clear that
resistance is futile. After Ms. Jannie gently lays me on the
mat, my mother, Ms. Jannie, and Mary Jacobs sit in a circle
around me as candles burn on the nightstand in the
background and the darkness envelops everything else.
They have stopped their dark-angel singing now and are all
silent.
They sit with their eyes closed until Mary Jacobs breaks
the silence and begins chanting the same chant my mother
chanted that Saturday night in the purple dress: “Habercito
nyucatana sumacsinchi machainini … Cielo, cielo.” She later
tells me the chant activates a higher spiritual consciousness
and sends a signal to the in-between to open the portal in
preparation for a miracle. Her voice is haunting, and it
pierces every part of me. Mary Jacobs's voice alone releases
me. Penetrates the thick shell I have built around myself.
The power of her voice totally disarms me. Somehow, her
voice is both hollow and full, far and near. At once, the black
veil lifts and I am undone. I begin to cry.
Mary Jacobs instructs me to “Swallow the darkness.
Cultivate it. Then restore the light. You came from the light.
The light is your center, your beginning and your end. The
light is your ancestor, but first you must know darkness.”
She reaches into a small bowl sitting next to her. It looks like
it is full of dirt or sand. She grabs a handful and throws it on
the candles in front of us until they all flicker out, except the
large white candle right next to me. The room is almost
totally dark now. “Swallow the darkness,” she says again. I
don't know what she means, but I feel myself sliding down,
down, down, losing my grip on the ceiling. I fight to hold on,
but I know she will have me soon and I wonder what she is
going to do to me.
LESSON 12
Anchoring the Singular Purpose
It all happened in a flash. Nobody could believe it. There she
was, my mother, plunging a knife deep into her mother's
chest. Then a series of traumatic scenes. Mary Jacobs
smacking both of her cheeks and screaming, “Aprah, Aprah!
Wake up, girl! Oh my God! Wake up, girl!” My mother
writhing and struggling to reach for the knife again, to
plunge it farther all while shouting, “He was a demon! I sent
him back to da light like da pastor said!” Ms. Corrine Turner
jumping up to call 911 and trying to think of a story, any
story but this one, to explain what had happened. She would
tell them that it was an accident. That the girl had woken up
from a bad dream about demons and just happened to have
a knife under her pillow, which she plunged deep into the
corridors of her mother's chest. And they would believe her
because she's only a child.
Then the wails would start. A chorus of wails. Wails from
sirens, ambulances, police cars, investigators, morgue
hearses. Wails from people: friends, family, neighbors,
church members. Then eventually wails from my mother
herself, when she realized what was happening, what she
had done. The authorities didn't believe her, of course,
because she wasn't a child in their eyes. She was a black
child. And a black child is just as guilty as a black adult in
the eyes of the law. So they dragged her away in handcuffs
while she screamed, “Noooo! It was an accident! I didn't
mean to! No, please! Noooo!” She screamed with the
intensity and high pitch of a child who has just lost
everything. She was only ten years old, but she knew her
life was over from that point on. She decided right then that
there could be no redemption for her and that she must be
irreversibly broken. When the police officers finally got her
outside and were about to put her in the back of the car, her
eyes rolled up to the sky
which has transformed into the in-between. I have
returned to my body and the ceiling has totally dissolved. I
am lying on the makeshift mat of towels and sheets. I stare
up and watch specks of dazzling light rain down while
colorful clouds move slowly against a dense, dark black
space. Ms. Jannie and my mother chant with low-pitched,
throaty voices. Mary Jacobs begins speaking to someone
who is not in the room. It's like she's speaking to God or
some presence beyond her. “Who among us was not born in
darkness? Who among us was not made by the light? Dark
and light, two sides of the same coin. Two parts of
existence. And now she is trapped in darkness, far, far away
from the light. We know she must learn to cultivate the
darkness. And to do that, she must go back to the
beginning. I am ready to come to the above plane to help
her. We know that rising from the dead can only happen in
the above plane. We humbly ask permission to rise.” Mary
Jacobs then gently places her hand over my eyes and says
“sleep.” I cannot resist her. As soon as I close my eyes, I
hear
someone singing “What a Friend We Have in Jesus.” My
mother looks around at all the girls in the Warriors for Jesus
prayer group, which meets every Sunday afternoon at two in
the chapel room. My mother has been coming since she was
first placed in juvenile detention three years ago. She
initially started coming under the instructions of her
caseworker, who told her turning her life over to Jesus would
be part of her rehabilitation and would increase her chances
for an early release. So my mother drags her lifeless body to
the meetings and sits half singing and half listening while
everyone talks about their love of Jesus. My mother is
always slumped and scowling, trying to find some reason to
stay alive. She knows Jesus is not enough reason, not after
what happened, but she plays along in hopes of getting an
early release.
The first thing they do after singing is list all the sins for
which they need forgiveness, past and present. My mother
always lists one sin, the same sin every week: “I killed my
momma. Dat's my sin.”
Then the group falls silent until someone else begins
listing her own sins. “Well, I wish I had listened more to my
grandmamma,” one short, light-skinned girl with a big
forehead begins saying. “Like she was right about
everything. Like how she told me not to steal or drink or
smoke. Dem my sins, but if I had listened to her, I prolly
wouldn't be here. Now she not here no more.” She done
gone on
to a place that seems to be totally abandoned. I was
sucked up through some kind of portal and I woke up here in
this giant warehouse place that doesn't have any walls or
ceilings. The floor looks like black marble but doesn't make
a sound when you walk on it. It's just a wide open space
that extends out infinitely in all directions. There are beams
of light that flood the space from an unknown source above.
The last thing I remember before waking up here is Mary
Jacobs placing her hand over my eyes. I don't know where I
am—I don't see Mary Jacobs, Ms. Jannie, or my mother
anywhere. I stand up and look around. I pick a direction and
start walking, hoping I will see someone, anyone. I see a
form start to materialize just on the horizon in front of me. I
start running toward the figure screaming, “Hey! Hey!
Where am I?” I run faster and faster until I finally reach the
figure, who is sitting in the middle of the floor facing away
from me. “Hey! Do you know where we are?”
As I get closer, I discern that the figure is a little girl.
When she turns around, I see that there are tears in her
eyes. I ask her what's wrong, but she just looks at me with
the saddest eyes I've ever seen in my life. I sit down in front
of her and try to cheer her up by telling her jokes and
making funny faces. None of it works. She pulls out a pink
box that has a black ballerina in it, just like the one my
mother gave me. She hands it to me and says, “It doesn't
work anymore.” I open it and see that she is right. The light
has gone out and the ballerina doesn't spin. “It's broken,”
the little girl says. “We're all broken and you have to help
us.” As soon as she says that, I see that there is a circle of
young girls sitting around us. They all look so beaten down,
“like I don't have anything to live for,” my mother says to
the white lady missionary at the prayer group when it's time
to share how they are feeling. “I don't feel nothin' no mo,
inside. Do that make me crazy? Dat I don't feel nothin'
about killin' my own momma?”
The white lady missionary smiles softly at my mother and
says, “No. That's actually a very normal response to
something like what you've been through. The mind can't
process the magnitude of what happened. Can't make sense
of it, so you shut down completely … I hear what you're
saying about feeling like Jesus isn't your purpose here on
earth. I understand and respect that. But what I can tell you
is that you have to choose a purpose, something you
believe in deep down. You can't make it in this world without
anchoring yourself.”
The twelfth lesson of wizard training is this: You must
choose a singular purpose, one story that will drive your life
forward. Without one, you will crumble into insanity or
apathy; both are unbearable. Your purpose is the most
important seed planted inside of you, because it is the tree
from which all the other branches grow. It's the most
important story you tell yourself about why you exist. It
must be chosen carefully and thoughtfully.
“So I want to ask you right here and now, April, what do
you want your purpose to be?” the white lady missionary
asks my mother. “What do you want your reason for staying
on this earth to be?” All the other girls in the prayer circle
stare at me in anticipation. “I don't know,” I tell them. “I
don't know what my purpose is. Not since the rape. It's
nothing but suffering down there. I don't want to go back. I
can't go back.”
The little girl who gave me the ballerina box stands up,
grabs my hand, and walks me over to an area to my right,
but still inside the circle. I see a magic carpet just like the
one from kindergarten. We stand on the magic carpet, and
the little girl takes both my hands and says, “Let's twirl!” We
twirl around and around each other until we are both smiling
and laughing gleefully. “Make a wish!” she says.
I close my eyes and try to think of something, but nothing
comes. I open my eyes and smile plastically to mask the
fact that I haven't made a wish; I don't want to disappoint
her. “Wanna know what my wish is?” she asks excitedly. I
nod. “I want to help all the other little girls in the world
figure out how to un-break.” As soon as she says this, I know
who she is. She is me, but the beginning me before it all
happened. She has the same braids I used to wear before I
relaxed my hair. She is wearing the same T-shirt from the
night of the fire. Her total innocence buckles me. I fall to my
knees and grab her hands. I tell her how sorry I am. How I
never wanted any of this to happen. How this is all my fault.
How I didn't pay attention to the signals. “I'm sorry I let you
down,” I say to her with my head hung in front of me.
One by one each of the other little girls, who have been
sitting in a circle watching this whole scene play out, gets
up and brings me a gift. One little girl brings me a rose,
another brings me a crystal, another a small stuffed dove,
and on and on. When they have laid all their gifts on the
magic carpet in front of me, younger me says, “Those gifts
are all new seeds. You can use them to regrow the light. The
rose will help you regrow your open heart, the crystal will
help you regrow your ability to hope, especially in times of
despair, and the dove will help you regrow your innocence.
We are both still luminous, you know, even after what he
did.”
Suddenly, I see a woman stand up from the circle. I hadn't
noticed her before, so I wonder if she has been sitting there
the whole time. When she starts walking toward me, I see
that it's Mary Jacobs. She hands me a shovel and tells me I
can dig anywhere in the space to bury the gifts. I grab the
shovel and begin digging furiously, breaking the black
marble floor, and then digging into the dirt below. As I dig,
memories start to flood my mind. So many memories
“about who I was in the beginning, befo' all dis happn'd.
Back den, I thought my purpose was to be a seamstress.
Thought I was gonna be a big fashion designer, but I
watched dem dreams dissolve befo' my eyes … And now …
Well, now I just want my future chi'run to have a betta life
dan I did. I always wanted kids, to show 'em dat thangs
could be diff'rnt. So I guess I want dat to be my purpose. Fo
my chi'run, my future chi'run to not hafta live like I did.”
The white lady missionary smiles warmly and places her
hand on my mother's shoulder. A guard, who has been
standing by the door the entire time, barks, “Hey! No
touching!”
The missionary removes her hand reluctantly and says to
my mother in the most compassionate voice she can
muster, “Ms. April, that's a fine purpose if I ever heard one,
and it shows you still got some light left in you. You still got
some hope left in you. That's all you need to survive. Light,
hope, and a purpose you believe in.” My mother turns her
head toward her, eyes welling up. The first time she has
cried since the night she killed her mother. She dissolves
into tears and buries her head in the white lady missionary's
arms. The guard doesn't bark again. His own humanity leaps
forward in this moment. My mother cries and cries as the
white lady missionary reaches for the box of tissues. She
plunges her hand
frantically into the dirt. I throw the shovel to my side and
dig until my fingers hurt. Every emotion I have ever felt
bubbles up in my body as I dig. Suddenly, I start screaming
at the top of my lungs: “I hate everything! I hate
everybody!! Why did they do this to me?! They took
everything from me! They beat me and my brothers in the
middle of the living room! She let us burn in the fire! The
flesh man put his hands in me, even though I told him to
stop! That monster raped me!” I stop digging and sit on my
knees, crying. “He took everything from me. I just wanted
him to like me.”
Mary Jacobs walks over and puts her hand on my back
and then kisses me on the forehead. “I know, dear one,” she
says. “I know what has been done to you. And I'm so sorry.
Bury all of it, put it in the ground and cover it with eternal
dirt.” I start throwing the gifts into the freshly dug holes and
covering them up. Before I finish, one of the little girls
brings me another gift. She hands me two double-A
batteries and says it's to turn the ballerina box back on. I
toss the batteries in one of the holes and keep burying. After
all the gifts are buried, I lie exhausted on the ground and
stare into the dark space above. I lie there for what feels like
an eternity. Mary Jacobs and the little girls all sit quietly in a
circle around me, having witnessed the whole scene play
out.
Suddenly, I hear a rumbling deep beneath the ground. I
sit up and place my right ear to the ground as the noise
grows louder and louder. It sounds like a car driving up
through the dirt. The sound gets more intense until several
geysers of light begin to shoot up out of the ground. It's so
much light, I can barely look at it without being blinded. The
geysers of light hit the dark space above—which isn't a solid
ceiling, but somehow still causes the beams to bend and
shower all of us in bright light. I shield my eyes with my
arm, the light is so bright. All the little girls start twirling and
clapping while screaming, “Yay! Now she can rise! Now she
can return!”
Little me celebrates and twirls with the other girls before
bringing me the pink ballerina box. When I open it, the black
ballerina starts to spin and her light turns back on. The sight
of it overwhelms me. I place my hands on the sides of her
arms. “Thank you,” I say. “Thank you for not giving up on
me.” I kiss her on the forehead and release her arms.
Mary Jacobs, who has been watching this entire time,
grabs my hand and tells me that we have to return now. I
start to follow her, then look back at the little girls one last
time. I remember again the future vision for myself, all the
broken little girls coming to me for help, to figure out how to
un-break. May it be so. May it be so.
I hear Mary Jacobs yelling, “Come back! Come back!” while
smacking me on the cheeks. I feel myself being sucked
through some kind of portal or tunnel at light speed again. I
hear my mother and Ms. Jannie also urge me to “Come
back, come back!” I want to tell them I'm on my way. I'm
coming. Suddenly, my eyes splatter open and I start
gasping for my breath. I tussle and writhe frantically while
Ms. Jannie and my mother hold me down.
Mary Jacobs says, “Nah, nah, dere, dere, baby gurl. Relax.
You done made it back. You done da hardest work of all. You
done turn dat light back on. Nah, nah, dere, dere, baby gurl.
Dere dere.” Her voice relaxes me. I stop struggling and lie
still.
When I finally catch my breath, I sit up and see my
mother and Ms. Jannie looking at me with warmth and
compassion. They are holding hands, just like Elena and I
did after the miracle in her room. Mary Jacobs cradles me in
her lap, rocking me like a newborn baby. Ms. Jannie and my
mother both hum with deep throaty voices that sound like
old Negro spirituals.
They all look so transcendent and powerful. I try to absorb
as much of this moment as I can because I know the biggest
miracle of my life has been performed. I bask in all of it,
marinating in the endless compassion and grace of these
three ancient wizards. I remind myself again of my purpose
so I don't forget: to uplift the others, the broken. I look
around one last time at my mother, Ms. Jannie, and Mary
Jacobs. I thank them again silently with my eyes.
And on the seventh day, I rise from the dead.
LESSON 13
Uncovering Optimal Potential
“But still, like air, I'll rise…” Mrs. Marleen Delaney, my
eleventh-grade English teacher, is reading a poem by Maya
Angelou to the class. I have never heard of Maya Angelou
before she reads this text, but the poem speaks to me.
Reminds me of that night, of my own rising, several months
ago, of all the little girls. At the end of the semester, we will
have to choose a poem from a famous poet and recite it in
front of the entire class. When Mrs. Delaney tells us we'll
have to do this, I feel like throwing up. No part of me wants
to stand in front of the judging eyes of my peers and
perform. Why do teachers always make you do stuff like
this? They forget so quickly how brutal high school can be. I
try to think of ways to get out of reciting the poem. I already
know she's not gonna go for it, but I'm determined to
convince her. I'll have to do something extraordinary.
In addition to Maya Angelou's poems, we are also reading
her memoir, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, and learn
that Maya didn't talk for five years after she was raped. I
wonder if she was a wizard also and got trapped in the
above plane. Did she have to regrow the light? I don't think
men really understand the full impact of rape and what it
takes from us, how it cauterizes the light of our souls. My
mother says the day of reckoning is coming for them. I hope
it comes soon.
“So nothing will happen to Prince Mack?!” Elena asks me
when I finally tell her what went down. “He doesn't go to
jail? He doesn't get questioned? He just gets to rape freely
with no consequences?!” I don't know how to answer Elena.
How to tell her most of the women in my family and
neighborhood have been raped or assaulted in some way,
and almost none of the perpetrators, including my mother's
uncle, face consequences because nobody cares about
black women. I think again about all the little girls in the
above plane. I care. And I'll be there waiting when they are
ready to regrow their light. I recommit to my singular
purpose.
“Well, my mother still doesn't know who it was. I can't tell
her or she'll kill him. I know she would. And even if we did
go to the police, are they really gonna believe me? I mean, I
went over there in a short skirt in the middle of winter, while
no one was home, and followed him up to his room.
Nobody's gonna believe me. Besides, I just want to move on
and graduate next year and go to college. That's enough for
me. I don't need justice. I've learned how to live without it.”
Elena looks deeply saddened and disturbed by my words,
but she knows that what I'm saying is true. “I'm just so
angry,” she yells. “I wish we could do, like, a reverse miracle
or something, like a dark miracle to make him pay.”
My mother says that not all wizards are helpers and that
some carry out dark miracles. If a wizard remains
submerged in the darkness of the black veil, or fails to give
their power specific meaning and direction, she can end up
using her abilities to do harm. My mother tells me that even
though she's been trapped under the black veil for most of
her life, the singular purpose she chose in juvenile detention
has kept her going all this time and stopped her from
turning to dark miracles. “It's hard ta turn against da light
and use dat kinda power ta do harm. You have ta be really
lost in da worl' ta go in dat direction. But you ain't got ta
worry 'bout all dat, 'cause you done did what you needed ta
do ta come back. I'm grateful fo dat. Lawd knows I'm
grateful.”
Henry E. Tarver Public School here on the East Side has far
fewer resources than the middle school I went to on the
West Side. But even though we have less money, I'm
convinced we have better teachers. Teachers like Mrs.
Delaney who assign us books written by people who look
like us, and who can truly see our potential and encourage
us to go to college. I've been thinking about college for
years, but it's only now becoming a real possibility. If I get
in, I'll be the first in my family to go. Mrs. Delaney knows
this and says she's going to do everything in her power to
make sure I get in somewhere, which is why she's my
favorite teacher. Many students claim she's their favorite.
Every time I walk into her classroom, she smiles at me
like she can see inside of me, like she knows who I am at
the core. She asks me every day, “How are you, honey?”
She asks with such compassion and softness, I want to pour
out my soul and tell her about all my problems—the rape,
the poverty, the rising from the dead, the miracles, the drug
addictions—but I just say, “I'm fine,” so she doesn't think
I'm unhinged. Only other wizards can understand the
journey I've taken.
Still, there aren't enough teachers at Tarver, so some
classes here are mixed with both regular students and
students in the Gifted and Talented Program. That means
Tiffany is in a few of my classes, like Mrs. Delaney's, but I
keep my distance from her.
I have five close friends at the black high school on the
East Side. They call us the “Tarver Six” because we have the
highest GPAs. No one remembers who first started calling us
that, but it stuck and makes me feel like I'm part of
something important.
There are three boys and three girls in the Tarver Six,
including Davante, who is now in honors classes after finally
having tested into the program for high school. Rodman is a
jock who loves sports but doesn't play because of a
collarbone injury that never healed properly. He also flirts
with any girl with a pulse. Jin is the self-proclaimed “Asian
Queen of the Ghetto,” known for being one of the only out
LGBTQ kids at school. Karen is light-skinned, shy, and very
pretty (but doesn't know it yet). And Alexis is our resident
type A overachiever who wants to be valedictorian. She's
always competing with us, even though none of us are
competing with her. I don't even know what valedictorian
means until she tells me it's the student with the best
grades in the entire class and that we're tied, since we've
both made straight A's since ninth grade. Even though I tell
myself I don't care, I begin to wonder what it would feel like
to be number one and give a big fancy speech at
graduation. That would be kind of amazing. I wonder if we
would both give a speech if we remain tied through
graduation? If there is only one speech, I know I won't be
able to overcome Alexis's determination.
Everyone thinks the Tarver Six are the biggest nerds in
the grade, which means sometimes we are picked on. I try
to make myself small so that no one notices me, but when
we walk around school all together, people always sneer. We
all wear glasses and have heavy black book bags that droop
down our backs. Sometimes they call us Black Ninja Turtles.
We stick together to survive the bullying, which means we
walk to class together, do homework together during study
halls, and eat lunch together. We also all work at the
Cleveland Clinic three days a week after school in their
Future Engineers Program. I know I don't want to be a
biomedical engineer anymore, but I stay in the program
because it pays thirteen dollars an hour, which is really high
compared to the seven dollars an hour some of my mother's
friends make at fast-food restaurants.
Dr. Matthew Craven, a biomedical engineer from
Australia, runs the program. Dr. Craven likes for us to
constantly show our excitement about the work. Whenever
he walks in the room, we all perk up from our slouched
positions and start cheering, “To science and beyond! Just
science it! Science is more than good, it's gr-r-r-reat!” All our
corny cheers come from popular slogans that Dr. Craven has
“reimagined and retrofitted for the young generation of
scientists.” They're pretty ridiculous, but the cheers put the
biggest smile on Dr. Craven's face. Before we go off to work
in real science labs throughout the clinic, Dr. Craven gives
us a lecture on the latest scientific developments and
concepts, so we, too, “can be on the cutting edge of science
and technology.” We listen, take notes, and then sprint off to
our individual labs, which are staffed by some of the best
researchers in the country.
I stay in the lab for as long as I can, even after I have
finished my work, to avoid going home. I sit at a desk in the
corner, working on homework, or stenciling if I am bored. I
stay until nine o'clock sometimes. When the cleaning staff
finally arrives and it's time to leave, I begrudgingly close my
notebook, pack my things, and head home, where the
windmill of chaos is probably underway. I never know what I
will find when I get home: a fight between my father and
mother; someone passed out on the floor; or my brothers'
friends, most of whom are dope boys on the corner now,
scattered around the apartment smoking weed. That's why
people like Mrs. Delaney and Dr. Craven are critical to me
and the Tarver Six. They push us to carry on.
So when I hear that another one of my brothers' friends
has been shot or locked up, I carry on. When the electricity
or gas gets turned off, I pay what I can and carry on. When
my parents fight, screaming at the top of their lungs and
throwing things at each other from across the room, I carry
on. And when I get home late at night after work and find
my mother strung out on the bathroom floor again, I drag
her to bed, tuck her in, and carry on. I carry on even
stronger after my rising.
Right after the cer'mony, my mother tried, cold turkey, to
quit smoking crack and drinking. She wanted to do it for me
since she could never do it for herself, but she only lasted a
month and then she relapsed again, becoming even worse
than she was before. I think her substance abuse increased
because of how angry and disappointed she was in herself
that she wasn't able to stop her addictions, even for me.
That and the fact that she's still carrying a graveyard of
ghosts inside. I've never been addicted to anything, so I can
only imagine how hard it is to stop.
Dre and Rone are still struggling to take a different path
while also trying to survive as best they can in this toxic
environment. I begin to understand why it's so hard for new
seeds to grow, no matter how epic the miracle that planted
them. The seed alone is not enough. New conditions are
needed to support the growth of the seed, which is why a
new apartment in a new neighborhood was so important. I
wonder if this is why white people have worked so hard to
live separately from us? To keep all their money and
resources to themselves in their nice houses and
neighborhoods, so our seeds can't grow? I am enraged
thinking about it, but I force myself to refocus on my
homework. I press my pencil on the paper and continue.
The next day after class, as soon as everyone leaves, I
hang around while Mrs. Delaney packs her things and cleans
the classroom. I make small talk, like I have learned to do
from going over to Elena's house. “How about the weather,”
I say to Mrs. Delaney nervously. “It's been so cold lately
even though it's supposed to be spring.”
Mrs. Delaney eyes me suspiciously while continuing to
tidy things around the classroom. “Is there something you
want, Ms. Brown?”
I pull a folded piece of paper from my pocket and hand it
to her. “It's the first part of my poem,” I say. “I wrote it last
night. You didn't tell us to make up our own, but I wanted to
do something unique and fresh. I just want you to know I
went above and beyond for the assignment, but I can't
under any circumstances perform it for the class. I just
can't. I'll die if I have to stand up there in front of everyone.”
Mrs. Delaney continues reading my poem, seemingly
ignoring what I'm saying. I keep pleading my case anyway.
“I mean, I think sometimes adults forget what it's like to be
insecure. And the other thing about it, I mean the most
important thing, is if I do it, then they might see…” My voice
trails off. I'm thinking about the beast that I know is still in
me somewhere, buried. I know if I perform my poem in front
of the class, everyone will finally see it and mock me for
being so hideous.
Mrs. Delaney finishes reading and refolds the paper. “I get
it,” she says. “I understand now why you're afraid. This
poem is brilliant. You are brilliant, and you're afraid to let
everyone see because it's a scary thing to be vulnerable.”
Mrs. Delaney silently shakes her head, grabs her bag, and
puts on her coat. My stomach sinks as I watch subtle
disappointment roll across her face. I hate disappointing
people, especially people who believe in me. I regret telling
her. Maybe I should have just skipped school that day
instead and said I was sick. Mrs. Delaney walks toward the
door and turns off the lights. She pauses before exiting,
turning to look at me. Her gaze is piercing as she says,
“Echo, you'll never know what you are truly made of if you
keep yourself hidden. And what's sad is that then we all
lose, too. The world won't have you and all the incredible
gifts you possess. The choice is yours, honey. The choice of
whether you rise and meet your full potential is yours. The
choice is always yours. See you tomorrow, honey.”
The thirteenth lesson of wizard training is to choose to
uncover your true potential, regardless of the obstacles in
front of you. It will not be easy, but you will be very
disappointed if you don't do it. I'm realizing that one of the
most difficult things about life is figuring out what you are
really made of, rather than living down to the negative
expectations of others.
I stand in the dark classroom all alone after Mrs. Delaney
leaves, her words still slicing through me like a sword. I
came back after my rising, but I have remained hidden. I
have tried to make myself invisible for protection. I
understand now there is a huge loss in hiding like I have
been doing. Something about it feels so tragic. I repeat Mrs.
Delaney's words in my mind: The world won't have you. I
hate the way it sounds. I well up with regret at all that has
been lost already, at all that has not been revealed. And I
vow to become visible, to be witnessed, no matter the
consequences.
LESSON 14
Performing Miracles of Unity
I sit at the kitchen table, flipping through the book of poems
by black writers Mrs. Delaney passed out at the beginning of
the semester. Even though I have already written the first
part of my poem, I have been stuck trying to finish it. I hope
some of the poems in the book will help me to find new
words. I read every verse carefully and come to understand
what Mrs. Delaney meant. So much has been given and
uncovered in each poem. What if these writers had all
stayed hidden? I shudder at the thought of everything that
would be lost. At what the rest of us would have missed. I
continue flipping through the book, pausing at Langston
Hughes's “A Dream Deferred.” The poem reminds me of my
dad and my brothers and all the boys struggling in my
neighborhood. So much lost potential, so many dreams
deferred.
I soak in Langston's words, let them wash over me. The
poem sparks something deep inside me, inspiring me to
rework and reimagine what I've already written. The next
lines of my poem suddenly begin to come forward. I press
my pencil into the page as the words pour out like molten
lava bursting out of a volcano. I write and rewrite. I erase
and find new words until I feel like the poem is finally
finished. I wince at the thought of having to recite publicly
what I have written, especially in front of Tiffany and Alexis,
but I'm determined.
I reach down into my soul again for courage and remind
myself, If you can, you must, which is something Mrs.
Delaney always says to us. I realize that I'm probably going
to have to reach for courage for the rest of my life, so I may
as well practice now. I can do this.
Jin and Davante come running into Mrs. Delaney's class one
week before we have to recite our poems, screaming at the
top of their lungs. “Oh my God! Oh my God!” School is over
for the day, and Karen, Rodman, and I have been sitting in
the classroom thumbing through homework and SAT books,
waiting for the rest of the Tarver Six to arrive so we can walk
to the Cleveland Clinic together. Alexis, who is usually the
first one to arrive, is not here, and no one knows where she
is.
Jin and Davante won't stop screaming and yelling “gurl!”
Rodman tells them to spit it out or shut up and sit down.
They are acting as if a bomb just went off. Jin is fanning
himself and pretending to faint. Jin's parents are firstgeneration immigrants from South Korea who “never
wanted a gay son, but are proud he makes good grades and
is planning to go to college.” Jin wants to go to New York
University so he can study theater and “further enrage his
unreasonable parents.” His parents don't yet know he plans
to study theater. Jin says he will tell them after they get his
rich uncle in South Korea to pay his tuition in full. They want
him to be a doctor or engineer so he doesn't end up like
them, managing a local grocery store in a poor black
neighborhood.
Jin is one of the bravest people I know. He paints his nails
and wears colorful vintage clothing that reveals his eclectic
personality. He refuses to change or hide himself even
though our school is super homophobic and queer kids are
constantly getting picked on. “They beat my ass if I'm
hiding,” he says. “They beat my ass if I'm not hiding. So I
may as well not hide all this fabulousness, gurl.”
He always has to add “gurl” to his sentences when he has
something important to say: “Guuurl, did you see that new
episode of Fresh Prince last night?” “Let me tell you where I
went yesterday, gurl!” “Gurl, did you hear about what's
going to be on the test?”
So when we hear Jin scream, “Gurl! Oh my God! Guuuurl!”
we know something major has happened.
Davante just keeps repeating “Oh my God” over and over.
“What is it?!” I ask in agitation. “If you're not going to tell
us, at least stop torturing us with the yelling.”
Jin takes an exaggerated deep breath and says, “Okay, so
you know how Alexis has been basically writing her
valedictorian speech since ninth grade? How it's her goal in
life to be, like, number one at ev'rrrrythang? Well, she ain't
number one no more!”
Rodman and Karen scream, “What?”
“Who's number one, then?!” I ask.
Jin and Davante look at each other, smile, and then shout
simultaneously, “You!”
“It's you, gurl!” Jin continues. “The chemistry teacher told
Alexis she's getting a B at the end of the semester because
she didn't do well on not one, but two tests.” He holds up
two fingers dramatically. “Ya'll not tied anymore. That
means there is only one person”—he drops down to one
finger—“in this entire school who has made straight A's for
three straight years, and that's you! Unless you're planning
on gettin' a B when you're a senior next year? Then it might
be a tie. Ohmygod, if it's a tie, you guys should lip-sync for
your life to determine who gets to give the valedictorian
speech. Ohmygod, can you please just get a B so that can
happen? It would truly satisfy every part of my queer Asian
soul.”
I stare at them in shock, too shocked even to laugh at
Jin's hilarity. When no words come out of my mouth, Jin
says, “Well, don't just sit there, guurrl. Give us a speech! We
demand a speech.” They all begin to clap and shout:
“Speech! Speech! Speech!”
I laugh along to their clapping before clearing my throat
and reciting one of the most famous segments from The
Color Purple: “‘All my life I had to fight. I had to fight my
daddy. I had to fight my brothers. I had to fight my cousins
and my uncles.' Nah, I'm just playing! Wahoooo!” I scream
as everyone else cheers.
I know this will create a wedge between Alexis and me. I
know that's why she didn't come to Mrs. Delaney's class
after school today like she always does when we have to
work at the Cleveland Clinic. Like Elena's parents, Alexis's
parents put a lot of pressure on her. Her father is an aircraft
marshal, helping direct planes during takeoff and landing,
and her mother cleans and cooks for rich white people on
the West Side. They are always telling her she has to be the
best at everything and get into the best college, especially
since they've sacrificed so much for her. They have been
diligently adding money to her college fund since she was a
baby. I rarely meet black people like Alexis's parents; they
are not on drugs, they have regular jobs, and they seem so
well-adjusted. I wonder how they were able to avoid the
white rocks and the Colt 45s. I really want to ask them one
day.
Alexis doesn't talk to any of us for the next several days.
She comes to class and sits on the other side of the room far
away from us. Anytime we try to talk to her, she pretends
like she doesn't hear and ignores us. Alexis is very stubborn,
especially when she wants something, so I assume she will
never talk to me again. But I am surprised when she
approaches me one day after school. She briskly walks up to
stand right in front of me. I prepare myself for some kind of
fight, clenching my fists at my sides. As soon as I look into
her eyes, I see desperation, not anger like I thought. “Hey,
Echo,” she says. “Look, I'm sorry about how I've been
acting. It's unfair to you and the rest of the group. I just …
I've had my mind set on being valedictorian since I was little
and to have that snatched from me has really affected me. I
haven't even told my parents yet because I know how
disappointed they will be. My father had already started
coaching me on what to say in my speech.” Alexis hugs a
book to her chest and looks down with such deep sadness, I
wonder if something else is going on with her. Show me the
darkness, I think to myself, and almost jump back when I
see that Ms. Perfect Alexis is covered in the black veil.
After my rising, I can not only see the black veil but also
hear what it is saying to others. I hear Alexis's black veil
telling her how worthless she is, how stupid she is, how
much of a failure she is. My eyes flood with compassion
when I see and hear this. I suddenly feel very bad for Alexis
and try to think of kind words to say. Before I open my
mouth, she starts speaking again. “I just really need this.
More than anyone … And, umm, I wanted to ask you … I
mean, it's a lot to ask … but I wanted to see…” Alexis's
voice trails off before she finishes and she looks down at the
ground.
“Alexis,” I say, “I'm so sorry about all this. You can ask me
anything. I think you're amazing, and I want to be
supportive.”
Alexis smiles meekly, perks up, and says, “Well, I wanted
to know if maybe you could … I don't know if you'd be
willing to, like,… get a B in something so we can be covaledictorians?” I stand there in silence, staring at Alexis,
not knowing how to respond to such a selfish request. She
sees my hesitation and storms off while shouting down the
hallway, “I knew you weren't a true friend!”
Tiffany, who always seems to be around when there is
conflict, walks up to me and asks what that was about.
“Nothing,” I say. “Nothing.” Tiffany lingers next to me as if
she wants to ask me something else, but she doesn't. “I'll
see you later,” she says eventually before walking off.
Tiffany's mother died of a drug overdose a few months
ago. Her mother had overdosed a few times in the past but
always managed to come back somehow. So when Tiffany
initially saw her mother passed out on the floor, she thought
she would wake up eventually. Or that she would be taken
to the hospital and the doctors would wake her up like they
always did. Except this time was different. Tiffany's
mother's face was a deep blue color and her entire body
was stiff like a board. Lil Man was sitting right next to her
dead body, watching TV. Lil Man and Tiffany had both been
living with Tiffany's uncle, per court order, but they stayed
with their mother on the weekends. Everyone in the
neighborhood knew something was very wrong when Tiffany
ran out of the apartment screaming at the top of her lungs,
“Noooo! God! Noooo!” As the ambulance was carrying her
mother out, Tiffany refused to let go of her dead body and
clung to her until her uncle finally managed to pull her away.
I can't imagine what it's like to lose your mother, so I feel
bad for Tiffany. Ever since it happened, Tiffany just keeps
her head down on her desk. Mrs. Delaney doesn't bother
her. No one bothers her.
When I get home later, while thumbing through all the
college brochures I have collected from my guidance
counselor—who has hundreds of them in his office—I think
about what Alexis asked me. I imagine introducing myself to
people at college by saying, Hi, my name is Echo Brown and
I was co-valedictorian of my high school. I hate the way it
sounds, but I understand the pain Alexis must feel at having
lost the number one spot. I flip through the brochure from
Dartmouth—my first choice—and wonder if I'll get in. I
imagine how many other students must be flipping through
this same brochure and wondering the same. Why would
Dartmouth take me over them? When I tell the guidance
counselor I want to go to Dartmouth, he tells me to “be
more realistic and aim for a third- or fourth-tier school,
because it's better to do well at those schools than to flunk
out of an Ivy League school.”
He doesn't know what I can do. He's wrong, I try to
convince myself while looking one more time at all the
pictures in Dartmouth's brochure. The beautiful trees with
different-colored leaves of brown, purple, orange, and red,
once again promising a new, better life. The majestic snow
that looks like it's been imported from a winter wonderland.
And the cute boys who all seem to have dimples and take
perfect pictures. One, with curly black hair, looks like Romeo
from Immature. Another looks like my favorite Backstreet
Boy, Kevin, and has dreamy eyes and perfect teeth. I stare
at Dartmouth Kevin, wondering what it would be like to date
a white boy. Wondering if white men would date a black girl
who looks like me. Wondering what dating at Dartmouth will
be like in general. I think about all the white men I see on TV
and in movies and how they all seem to be so amazing. How
they are always thoughtful and sensitive like Uncle Jesse
from Full House. Davante says the media demonizes black
men while simultaneously elevating white men to godlike
status, which is why you rarely see respectable black men
on TV. “It's all just the white media's brainwashing to make
you see dem as betta dan everyone else,” he says. But I
don't care what Davante says. I'm going to try to date all
different kinds of people at Dartmouth, including white boys.
I'm going to be an equal opportunity dater, I think proudly
to myself, chuckling at my obviously clever humor.
And I don't care what my guidance counselor says. I'm
going to Dartmouth, I repeat over and over. And like a true
Dartmouth student, I'm not going to be co-valedictorian. I'm
going to be the valedictorian of the Henry E. Tarver High
School Class of 2002. I'm going to give the best speech any
valedictorian has ever given. And after I graduate from
Dartmouth, I'm going to be a trauma therapist for little girls.
I'll give speeches all over the world. Eventually even Oprah
will interview me about my work. I speak out loud
everything I want for my life before closing the brochure and
sealing my fate.
When the day finally comes to recite our poems, I can't stop
sweating from nervousness. My hands are clammy and wet.
My pulse sporadically speeds up every time I imagine Mrs.
Delaney calling me up to the front of the room. I have
practiced a million times, but I keep forgetting the words.
There will be fifty of us in the classroom, including Ms.
Green's class, who will be joining and also performing. One
by one, all fifty of us will make our way to the front of the
class and recite our poems. Everyone looks nervous and
sweaty, just like me. Jin sits by the door and has his eyes
closed while mouthing the words to his poem. In true
thespian fashion, he tells us he will surprise the class with
his creation. Not even Mrs. Delaney knows what he will do.
Davante doesn't choose a poem, but instead picks an
excerpt from Malcolm X's speech “The Ballot or the Bullet.”
When it's Davante's turn to go, he easily performs a
powerful, moving rendition of the speech. “I'm not … an
American … I'm one of the 22 million black victims … of
Americanism … We don't see any American dream; we've
experienced only the American nightmare.” He is wearing
glasses similar to Malcolm X's and has also taken on
Malcolm's cadence and speaking pattern. Several people
are so moved by Davante's performance, they give him a
standing ovation. He bows with pride, and I suddenly feel a
renewed attraction to him, watching him deliver such a
confident performance. He has a girlfriend now, so we can't
be together, but I feel electrified watching him.
Alexis chooses Maya Angelou's “Still I Rise,” which Mrs.
Delaney introduced to us at the beginning of the semester. I
knew Alexis was going to pick a Maya Angelou poem, since
she always talks about how much she loves I Know Why the
Caged Bird Sings. “It's such a simple, yet profound, portrait
of black womanhood in America. Maya's wisdom, insight,
and poetic rigor are truly something to behold,” Alexis says
one day in class while we are discussing the book. Alexis
doesn't look in my direction while she performs her poem. I
know she is waiting for an answer to her question. I have
already decided, but I haven't told her yet, which means she
glares at me in the hallway. The rest of the Tarver Six all
think it's ridiculous she would make such a request, but they
are not surprised, given her personality and the pressures
from her parents. After she finishes her poem, I am annoyed
and clap unenthusiastically while smiling sarcastically at Jin.
When it's Jin's turn, he stands, pulls a small stereo from
his bag, and walks up to the front of the classroom. I hear
people snickering and giggling all around the classroom, so
I'm nervous for him, but he looks so confident in front of the
room. He presses play on the speaker and proceeds to lipsync “It's Raining Men” by the Weather Girls. Everyone's
jaws drop simultaneously, including Mrs. Delaney's. We are
all too stunned to laugh because he fully embodies his
performance. He makes it through about half of the song
before dramatically stopping the music and saying, “Now
that I have your full attention, I'll be reciting a few lines from
a speech by Harvey Milk, who was an advocate for the
rights of gay and lesbian people and a man whom you all
should know. He is one of the Martin Luther Kings of the
movement for rights for people like me.” Jin pauses
nervously and continues, “You do not realize the impact
your words have on me. When you call me things like
‘faggot-ass Jackie Chan,' it dehumanizes and diminishes
something inside me, leaves part of me wilted like a rose
left indoors for too long. Like Harvey said, ‘All young people,
regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe
and supportive environment in which to achieve their full
potential.' I will never be safe out there, but, dammit, I want
to be safe in here, in Mrs. Delaney's magical classroom.” He
reads his statement with such conviction and passion, tears
begin to well up in his eyes. He closes by saying, “My name
is Jin and I am not a caricature. I am a human being just like
you, and I deserve to be safe somewhere in this world just
like you.” The class gives him a raucous round of applause
as he sashays back to his seat.
I am surprised at how supportive the class is, not just
during Jin's performance, but during everyone's. There are a
few snickers here and there, but everyone is mostly
respectful and attentive. Maybe it's the gravity of the words.
Maybe the passion in the performances. Maybe it's Mrs.
Delaney's warning: “Anyone who is disrespectful during
someone else's performance will receive one month of
detention and fifteen percent off their final grade.” Maybe
it's a combination of all of these. Whatever it is, the class
listens and seems to absorb the words from each
performance. I have heard so many renditions of Maya
Angelou's “Still I Rise,” I nearly know the poem by heart
myself. Each performer, including Alexis, especially likes to
emphasize the line “Does my sassiness upset you?” One girl
even snaps her fingers and rolls her neck while saying it and
the class bursts out in laughter and applause.
When I hear Mrs. Delaney call my name, I stand and walk
timidly toward the front of the room. I feel everyone's eyes
burning a hole through me. I face them and tell them I
chose “A Dream Deferred” by Langston Hughes, but I
rewrote it a little. “Oh wonderful,” Mrs. Delaney exclaims.
“Another remix. You are all very creative and innovative. I
applaud you.” I smile at Mrs. Delaney, and take a deep
breath.
What dreams have they forced you to defer?
Did you want to be a pilot and fly planes?
Did they say you wouldn't make it in the Ivy
League?
Did you want to be a poet and write your poems in
the stars
like the ones that came before?
Immediately after I speak the first lines of my poem, the
class grows quiet. No one moves, and I watch as every set
of eyeballs in the room rolls forward, simultaneously,
landing directly on me, as if compelled by some unknown
force. I feel energy and electricity in the room that I've
never felt before, but I'm not quite sure what's happening. I
am not trying to stop the time, but it begins to wind down,
just like when I am deliberately performing a miracle.
Maybe the darkness inside stole your dreams?
Left you broken and buried
In a womb of despair
Did you have to rise up out of the dirt, too,
Learn to cultivate the light again, too?
Everyone in the class starts to move in slow motion. I
watch as one girl lifts her hand to scratch her face, but her
hand freezes in midair, hanging in suspension right beneath
her chin. I glance over at Tiffany and Alexis, who are not
freezing but appear to be in a hypnotic state. They both
stand up and begin repeating the lines of my poem. The rest
of the girls in the class, also seemingly hypnotized, stand up
and join hands, all repeating after me. They don't repeat the
words in unison; instead, they each repeat them at their
own pace and tempo so that their voices sound like a chorus
rising and falling, like waves in the ocean. I continue:
Did you ever think you would watch your parents
crawling around on the floor,
chasing the white ghost?
Did you ever think you would be next?
The girls all echo the word next one after the other.
Next                                                                                Next
            Next                                                Next
                            Next            Next
                                        Next
My father said he remembered the time before he knew
he was next. Said he remembered when he was nine years
old, how he would run barefoot on dusty dirt roads lined
with fields of cotton before he knew about the white rocks
and Colt 45s. Said he remembered when the white wizards
would gallop through his small town after midnight
screaming, “White power! No place for niggers!” They were
not really wizards, but sheep with guns and all the power of
the world. When my father's family and the rest of his little
town heard them galloping through, they would jump out of
their beds and spiral prayers to the good Lord for
assistance.
The next day, when the sun was shining again, Big
Momma, my father's grandmother, would tell my father not
to let those cowards in white bedsheets steal his courage or
his dreams. She would tell him that he was “gon' leave the
South and become a big man in the North.” She had already
prophesied it, seen it written in the fabric of the universe.
She would then tell my father to get on his knees and pray
to the good Lord for all that had been provided, all that will
be provided, and for the strength to continue on. And he
would obey. He would clasp his hands together so tightly,
imagining himself as a big man in the North, and with so
much conviction, the palms of his hands would turn totally
white from the pressure of his clasping.
What kind of dreams you got festering,
burning inside you?
How many nights you had to sit on the ceiling
Waiting for dem dreams
Chasing dem dreams
Hoping they wouldn't steal dem dreams?
Tell me 'bout dem dreams
Tell me what dey was
The girls, who are still holding hands, begin speaking. It
doesn't sound like their regular voices, though. They sound
like their inner little-girl selves, like the children in the above
plane, innocent and ethereal, remembering what they
wanted to be when they were young:
“I wanted to be an astronaut and fly way above the
earth,
but how can I soar with no money and no hope?”
“I wanted to be a doctor and help save people,
but then my momma died of a crack overdose.”
“I wanted to be a designer and make clothes, but
my teacher
told me to be more realistic about what's possible
for me.”
After all the girls finish speaking their dreams, all the boys
in the class begin sharing all the things they wanted to be
and all the reasons they couldn't do it. I am astounded at all
the dreams that are being lost. The tragedy of it propels me
to speak louder, more forcefully. I begin calling for the
wisdom of the time past. A portal to the in-between opens.
The ancestors hear us and transmit all the knowledge and
experience they gathered on this earth. Their energy
teaches us how to overcome and unifies the entire
classroom. I am astounded when many of the black veils in
the classroom begin to lift and hover, rather than
suffocating their victims. For a brief moment, with the veils
lifted, I see everyone for the first time, as they truly are,
beneath all the shit.
The fourteenth lesson of wizard training is that miracles of
unity have the power to lift many black veils at once. The
power of connecting and uniting many souls creates such a
rush of hope, goodwill, and light that it's impossible for the
black veil to hold its grip. Miracles of unity, more than any
other kind of miracle, can lead to the total transformation of
a person at the seed place because individual power
multiplies in community.
After all the miracles and messages stop, I stare out at
the class and finish my poem:
What dreams have they forced you to defer?
And what do you plan to do about it?
No one says anything when I finish, so I stand there in
silence, waiting for Mrs. Delaney to tell me to sit down since
no one is clapping. When I glance back at Mrs. Delaney, she
has a strange new look in her eyes. “Here she is,” she
suddenly says cryptically. “And so she has risen.” Mrs.
Delaney claps vigorously, and the rest of the class follows.
They clap with such enthusiasm and respect, I am
overwhelmed by the authenticity of their witnessing and by
the gratitude with which they receive my accidental miracle.
I feel proud and connected to everyone here for the first
time ever.
LESSON 15
Burning the Nest
Mrs. Delaney doesn't say anything to me for the next three
days. She barely even makes eye contact. When I try to talk
to her after class, she rushes out and says she can't talk. I
start to wonder if something's wrong, if she's mad at me for
some reason. If maybe she didn't like my remixed poem
after all. Everyone else besides Mrs. Delaney seems nicer,
more radiant, and more connected. Some black veils have
returned, but many are still lifted days later. Every morning
feels like summer camp, with people smiling and talking to
each other. I don't know how long it will last, but our class
finally feels how I've always wanted it to. I wish the rest of
the school could feel like this, but I am glad to at least have
one supportive space for now.
Alexis even apologizes for asking me to get a B. “I
shouldn't have asked you that,” she blurts out one day after
school. “I really did let my ego get to me, but I'm sure you'll
be a great valedictorian. I'll do my best as your salutatorian
wing woman. And I'm happy for you. I hope we can all be
friends again.” She smiles plastically and gives me a hug. I
can sense the strain in her smile, but I accept her apology
since I always knew she was compassionate deep down.
“Hey, have you noticed anything different about Mrs.
Delaney?” I say to Alexis. She shakes her head no at first,
but then says, “Actually, she seems even nicer after the
recital. I swear she's constantly giving me an intense,
encouraging smile. It's like Mrs. Delaney on compassion
steroids.” Shocked by Alexis's response, now I'm the one
smiling plastically, trying to hide my concern about why Mrs.
Delaney seems to have turned so cold to me. “Oh, well,
cool,” I say. “Never mind. I'll see you around!”
After Alexis leaves, I open my locker and watch as a small
piece of folded paper falls to the ground in front of me. I
open the note and read it. All that's written inside is one
word, “Prom?” There are little black spades drawn all around
the word. I wonder who it could be from and am surprised
that someone is asking me. I'm still not sure if I'm going,
although the Tarver Six has discussed attending as a group
—that is, all of us except Davante, since he has a girlfriend.
It's not the big senior prom, which will be next year, but the
junior prom. I run down the list of all the nerdy boys in the
eleventh grade who might have asked me. Kendrick? Tony?
Rodman? Derrick? Stephen? I fold the piece of paper up and
put it in my pocket. I close my locker, walk down the hallway
toward the door, and decide I will turn down whoever it is if
they ever reveal themselves. I'd rather focus on my college
applications instead of some stupid school dance.
I am shaking my head at the thought of prom when Mrs.
Delaney suddenly emerges from her classroom and walks
toward me. School has ended and the hallway is mostly
empty, except for Davante, who is waving from the other
end of the hall so we can walk home together.
“Echo, can I talk to you for a minute?” Mrs. Delaney says.
The seriousness in her tone concerns me, and I again
wonder what I could have done wrong.
I yell down to Davante and tell him I'll see him tomorrow.
He looks disappointed, but I don't have time to explain
before following Mrs. Delaney into her classroom. Mrs.
Delaney takes off her coat and sets her bag on the desk. I
clench the straps of my backpack, waiting for her to tell me
what I've done.
Mrs. Delaney stares out the window before finally
beginning to speak. “I can't stop thinking about your poem
and how brilliant it was. How much promise and potential
you have,” she says. “I've been thinking about how to say
this without offending or alarming you.” She turns around
and looks directly at me and continues. “I'm concerned
about you. I know everything you have been through and
are dealing with at home. I think you need a safe space to
really focus on the college application process, which can be
quite daunting, to ensure that we don't miss anything, that
you get to go to the best school possible, where you can
continue to thrive. And there are things you'll need to know
about the world … about life, important things that can't be
taught in books, in a classroom. I know you must be
wondering what I'm talking about. And I don't know how to
say this.” Mrs. Delaney pauses for several seconds before
continuing. “I think you should move in with me and my
husband until you go off to college. I know how it must
sound. I don't know what your parents will think, if they will
allow it. But I want to support you in the best way I know
how.”
I stare at Mrs. Delaney in disbelief, mouth wide open,
while still clenching the straps of my book bag.
“Yes, I thought that might be your reaction,” Mrs. Delaney
says when I don't respond. “But I'd love for you and your
parents to consider—”
“Okay,” I say, cutting her off midsentence. “I'll move in
with you.” I am surprised when the words fall out of my
mouth. I sense the gravity and truth of what she is saying,
and the importance of what she needs to teach me.
Mrs. Delaney is shocked at my quick response. She starts
speaking a mile a minute, stumbling over her words. “Okay,
I mean, all right, then. Well, when do you want to come? I
haven't even told my husband yet. We will convert our
library upstairs into a bedroom for you … And I'll talk to your
mother, make sure she's okay with it … And I think it's best
if we didn't tell people here at school since they won't
understand … Maybe we can have you move in at the end
of this week, before the school year is over. That way we
have the summer also … I mean, it doesn't have to be this
week if that doesn't work for you. It can also be in the fall. I
imagine a teenager might want to spend the summer before
their senior year relaxing and having fun.”
I listen carefully to everything Mrs. Delaney outlines
before saying, “I can move in this week … I'm not a normal
teenager.” Mrs. Delaney smiles and asks if she should
schedule a call with my mother or drop by my apartment in
the next few days. I think for a second about the best
approach for telling my mother, who will be very upset
about all this. “I'll tell my mom,” I say to Mrs. Delaney. “And
I'll let you know what she says and which day you should
pick me up.” Mrs. Delaney nods her head in excitement and
says, “All right, then, very good. Let me know if you need
anything at all in the meantime.”
“I will,” I say before walking out of the classroom.
When I get to the hallway, I am surprised to see Davante
waiting for me right outside the door. I'm still processing
what just happened and don't really feel like talking to him
right now. “I thought you went home.” I say.
“Oh, yeah,” he says. “I started walking home, but then
came back to wait for you so we could walk home togetha
… What you was talkin' to her about? You ain't in trouble, is
you?”
I shake my head no as we head toward the front door. I
pull the folded piece of paper from my pocket and hand it to
Davante, changing the subject. “Look what somebody left in
my locker today. Who do you think it could be? I already ran
through the list of every nerd in our grade, but still don't
know. You think it was an underclassman? Maybe Daniel or
Cordoby? I bet it was one of them. They always smiling at
me in the hallway and congratulating me on being the new
top of our class.”
Davante holds the note in his hands while remaining
awkwardly silent. I wonder why he's so quiet. His forehead is
sweating and he looks like he's seen a ghost.
“What's wrong with you?” I ask. “You of all people don't
have any theories about who it could be?… What? You want
to talk about the usual? How the government is conspiring
against black people?” I shake my head teasingly, but he
still doesn't say anything. “Is everything all right?” I ask.
“What are you and Kimberly wearing to prom?”
Davante stops in the middle of the sidewalk and says
sadly, “We broke up.”
“Oh no!” I respond in surprise. “I'm so sorry to hear that.
Let's stop at the penny candy store. I'll buy you all the
candy you want. The sugar rush will make you feel better.
Come on, let's go.” I tug at his arm, but he remains pinned
to the sidewalk.
He looks down shyly before finally beginning to speak. “I
was wonderin' … I mean … I know it hasn't been nothin'
between me and you for a while … But I think about dem
afta-school kisses we use'ta do in middle school all da time
… I know you said you don't want to go to prom and all dat,
but I mean, I'on' know. I was thinkin' dat maybe we can go
together?”
A wave of sadness comes over me. Both for the
disappointment it will cause him when I say no and for the
trauma from Prince Mack that makes me very hesitant to
get close to a boy again. I stand there not saying anything,
wanting to avoid it all somehow.
“Okay, then. It's cool,” Davante says, quickly walking
away. “I undastand. Don't worry about it. I'a see you
around.”
I watch Davante move farther and farther up the
sidewalk. I open my mouth to call after him, but when no
words come out, I walk the rest of the way alone to my
apartment.
When I get home, Dre and Rone are sitting at the kitchen
table drinking out of plastic Kool-Aid cups.
“What y'all talking about?” I ask.
“Dis grown-folk's business,” Rone says jokingly.
Dre chimes in and says, “Yeah, dis a A and B
conversation, so C yo way out.” They both start laughing
hysterically as if they have made the funniest joke in the
world.
“Ha ha ha,” I say while grabbing a cup of water.
Dre looks up at the picture of Jesus over the stove and
says to Rone, “I swear dat nigga be moving ta different
positions. Man, wasn't his hands in front of his chest before?
I'm tellin' you, dat nigga be movin'.”
Rone laughs and replies, “Nigga, you high. How a picture
on da wall gon' move?” Rone opens a can of Vienna
sausages and bag of plain potato chips. “Want some?” he
asks while pouring everything on a plate. Something about
the way he generously offers fills me with a different
sadness. I look into both my brothers' eyes as a flood of
memories comes racing back: us playing in the field, me
trying to help them with their homework, the miracles at the
juvenile detention center and Titanic.
I think about the earlier conversation with Mrs. Delaney
and become even sadder. What will happen to Dre and Rone
if I leave?
“Hey,” I say solemnly. “What y'all think about me going to
live somewhere else before I leave for college next year?”
They both stop laughing and eating and look at me in
silence. “What you talkin' 'bout, Echo?” Rone says. “Where
else would you go?”
I see the look of sadness in Rone's eyes and decide in
that moment I can't leave them.
“I'on' want you ta go, Echo,” Dre says. “I mean, I know
you gotta leave when you go to college next year, but I'on'
want you ta leave befo' then.” Dre gets up and gives me a
hug. “Don't leave us, sis.”
I tell Dre I'm not going anywhere and he doesn't have to
worry. Dre smiles, reassured, before both of them get up,
put their dishes in the sink, and say they have to go do
something important.
“But I don't want y'all on the corner,” I say. “Y'all don't
want me to leave, and I don't want y'all on the corner. I
know that's where y'all goin'.”
Rone turns around from the kitchen sink and says, “What
else we supposed ta do, Echo? We ain't like you wit' all dat
studyin'. We ain't goin' to no college. I know dat now … But
you don't gotta worry. We jus' doin' a lil bit ta get by. We
gon' apply fo some jobs at Walmart and McDonald's so we
can get off da corner. Don't worry, sis.”
I watch them both start walking toward the door. I yell,
“Wait! Can I read you dis poem I wrote for my English class?
I wrote it for both of y'all and Dad.”
Rone reluctantly says, “Yeah, go ahead, but we only got
five minutes.”
I pull the poem out of my book bag, stand up, and read it
to them. I wonder if the ancestors will come this time. If
their black veils will lift and transform. I make it halfway
through the poem before I hear a car pull into the driveway.
They both walk quickly out the door. “That's a good
poem, sis,” Dre says while leaving. “That's nice. Love you,
sis.”
Every time they leave, they always say the same thing,
“Love you, sis,” and then give me a hug before bolting out
the door. And every time, I try to think of words, any words,
to make them stay. This time, I call out frantically, “Hey!
Dre! Rone! I know you gotta go, but I just want y'all both to
know I love you so much. And I tried everything I could to
change the path and make things better for you, but all I
could do was help plant new seeds … You have to grow the
seeds, though. I can't do that for you. You have to realize
there's another way.”
Rone looks at me in confusion before also giving me a
hug. They both say, “Okay, sis,” before disappearing into
the darkness of the hallway.
“Be safe,” I say while standing in the empty kitchen by
myself. I stand there looking at the door for … several
minutes? Maybe an hour? Several hours? Waiting for them
to come back. When my knees begin to buckle and the
bottoms of my feet hurt, I finally sit down. I am all alone in
the apartment and wonder if I will be this lonely my entire
life. I force myself to start my homework. I force myself to
carry on.
I have been sitting at the kitchen table studying for two
hours when my mother finally comes stumbling home. “Hey,
baby,” she says before walking past me into the living room,
where she starts moving and shuffling things around. I know
what she's looking for. I close my textbook and sit panicked
at the table, trying to think of what I will say when she asks
what happened to the little white baggies she had hidden in
the floorboards by the couch. I sit there frozen, waiting for
her to come storming into the kitchen. When she finally
does, she's not storming, she's smiling and asks me in the
sweetest voice possible, “Ecka, baby, anybody been in da
house today? Anybody come ova here today while I was
gone? 'Cause I cain't find my stuff.” I tell my mother no one
has been over and ask her what stuff she's talking about.
“Baby, now, come on. You far from a dummy. You know what
stuff I'm talkin' 'bout.”
She returns to the living room and begins frantically
searching around the entire house. She pulls all the
cushions off the couch. She pulls up several floorboards in
the kitchen. She flips over all the mattresses and pulls the
clothes out of all the dressers. When she's done, it looks like
a tornado has torn through the apartment. She stands in the
middle of the living room, scratching her face and shaking.
Her voice, full of rage and frustration, shoots directly at me
like a gun. “Ecka, you sho you ain't seen my stuff?! Don't
play games wit' me, baby, you heah? I gotta have it. Come
on now.”
I instantly regret what I did only hours earlier. I wish that I
could un-flush the toilet or that I had just thrown everything
in the garbage so I could simply go and retrieve it all. There
is no way to reverse it, so I stand silently across from my
mother, looking down at the floor. “I'm sorry, Mom. I just
don't like to see you like this. You don't seem like yourself
anymore … You high all the time. And when you ain't high,
you sleepin' all the time. It's like you tryna kill yo'self. Is you
tryna kill yo'self? 'Cause I don't want to be in the world
without you, after all we've been through.”
For a brief second, a glimmer of who my mother used to
be comes back and she softens. She recognizes how insane
she must appear right now. The moment passes quickly as
her rage returns, causing her to raise her combat shell. My
mother has never raised her combat shell toward me, so my
body fills with terror at the sight of it. The light in her eyes
disappears entirely and she starts screaming, “You fucking
bitch! You thank jus' 'cause you goin' ta college you betta
than us?! You thank jus' 'cause you don't drank nothin',
don't smoke nothin', you can touch my shit?! My shit?” She
grabs a glass candle from the table and throws it at me,
narrowly missing my head.
I run to my room and lock the door. I yell from behind the
door, “Mom, please calm down! Please, this is not you! That
stuff makes you like this. That veil makes you like this!”
My mother starts throwing an assortment of items at the
door while screaming at the top of her lungs, “After all I
done for you! You stuck-up lil bitch! Betta rememba where
you came from!” After she runs out of things to throw, she
starts banging on the door with all her strength, throwing
her entire body into it.
I start crying and pleading, “Please, Ma! Please stop!”
But she continues, “You lil bitch! I wish I neva had no kids!
I wish I neva had you and yo brothas so I coulda gone on
and took myself out dis crazy-ass worl'! Afta ev'rythang I
done done for y'all!” She releases a guttural, rage-infused
scream before storming off.
I hear the apartment door swing open, hitting the wall,
and I hear her stomping down the stairs. I sit on the floor of
my room, cradling my head in my lap, as tears fall from my
eyes. Her words slice through me, stinging all my soft parts,
reducing the light that returned after my rising. A hurricane
of emotion rages through: anger, sadness, grief, despair.
Fuck her, I think to myself. Fuck this place.
I jump up off the floor with tears streaming down my face
and begin packing a duffel bag full of clothes. I stuff as
many clothes as I can into the bag. I run to the bathroom
and grab my toothbrush before returning to the kitchen and
stuffing my homework into my book bag. I remember the
conversation I had with my brothers earlier, promising them
I wouldn't leave. I don't care, I think to myself. I am leaving
this awful place. I know that moving in with Mrs. Delaney
will be both a gift and a curse. A gift because I know I will
need whatever she will teach me for the journey ahead. And
a curse because I will never forgive myself for leaving my
brothers here alone in the chaos. I will bear the weight of
that until I go to my grave. Jesus and I will have that in
common.
The fifteenth lesson of wizard training is that every wizard
must eventually leave the place that makes her. At first,
home is a nest. But every nest must ultimately burn so that
wizards can fly far, far away, into the horizon of new
possibilities where their full potential is waiting to be
developed and unleashed.
I wonder what Dre and Rone will think when they come
home to find I am gone. I leave a note for Dre that has Mrs.
Delaney's phone number on it and tell him he can call me
anytime. I hope they forgive me. I hope they forget this and
instead remember all the ways I tried to help. I hope they
still think I'm “the best sister in the world.”
LESSON 16
Cultivating Receptivity
I stand frozen outside Mrs. Delaney's big white house on the
West Side, too afraid to walk up and ring the doorbell. It's
pitch-black outside, but somehow Mrs. Delaney senses I'm
here, looks out the window, and sees me standing there.
She swings the door open and says confusedly, “Echo?
Come in!” She grabs my duffel bag and tells me to have a
seat on the couch, and that her husband, Mr. Delaney, is
sleeping. “Is everything all right?” she asks with concern.
“Obviously, I'm excited you're here. I just wasn't imagining
you'd come tonight.” I sit, smiling plastically, but don't
answer her question. Seeing the deep sadness in my eyes,
she puts a hand on my shoulder, smiles warmly, but doesn't
press further. “Well, it's okay regardless. Welcome to my
home. Come on, follow me up to your room.”
The next day Mrs. Delaney drives me to and from school
with her. When we get back after school, she sets all her
bags down and offers me an assortment of drinks and
snacks. (She doesn't have Kool-Aid, so I drink lemonade.)
Mrs. Delaney tells me all about her life. I learn that she has
one adult daughter, from a previous marriage, who lives in
Philadelphia. I learn that her husband will be home from
work in another hour or so and that he never had kids. “I
told him last night you were here,” she adds. “He was a bit
surprised, but he's excited to meet you.” I look around at all
the expensive furniture, paintings, and objects in Mrs.
Delaney's house. I imagine breaking something accidentally
and then being asked to leave. I picture Mrs. Delaney
throwing my duffel bag out onto the street while all her
white neighbors stand on their lawns with crossed arms,
shaking their heads and yelling for me to go back where I
came from. I hope that never happens.
After Mrs. Delaney and I talk for a while, I go up to my
room and sit on the edge of the bed with my back perfectly
straight, afraid to touch anything. I've never had my own
room before and can't believe how big and nice this room is,
even though Mrs. Delaney says it needs to be cleaned. I
look around at all the nice furniture and suddenly feel a
surge of conflicting emotions. At once I feel excited, afraid,
euphoric, unsettled, and deeply out of place. I am so
uncomfortable, I have an overwhelming urge to go back to
the nest I burned. I'm sitting there trying to talk myself out
of leaving when I hear Mrs. Delaney calling for me to come
down because Mr. Delaney is home.
I stand up and walk quietly down the stairs. I'm nervous
to meet Mr. Delaney and wonder what he will be like. I walk
down four or five steps and then stop cold in my tracks
when I see him standing in the living room. My mouth falls
open and I don't move or say a word. “Oh, now, don't be
shy, honey,” Mrs. Delaney urges. “He won't bite! Come on
down.” I walk hesitantly toward Mr. Delaney, who is a tall,
towering black man with salt-and-pepper hair. Black. I was
expecting Mr. Delaney to be a nice, sensitive white man. I
have seen interracial relationships before, but only on TV. I
look back and forth between Mrs. and Mr. Delaney, trying to
hide my shock.
“I'm Dennis Delaney. Welcome to our home. Marleen has
told me all about you, and I'm happy to meet you … I was
thinking we'd take you out to dinner tonight if you are up for
it?” I nod yes without speaking. “Okay, good. We'll leave in
about ten minutes if you want to go and wash up
beforehand.”
I begin to panic as I walk back up the stairs. What does he
mean by “wash up”? Does that mean I should wash my
hands or take a shower? But ten minutes is not enough time
to take a shower and get ready. I assume “wash up” must
mean to wash my hands and maybe my face, which is what
I do in the bathroom upstairs. I'm too intimidated by Mr.
Delaney to ask for clarification. I also have never been out
to dinner anywhere other than McDonald's and Pizza Hut,
and we never wash up before going to those places, so I
wonder where we are going.
After I finish “washing up,” I look at myself in the mirror
and wonder if I should change my clothes. I'm wearing
jeans, a T-shirt, and sneakers. They didn't tell me to change,
but instinctively I know wherever they are taking me will
probably require something nicer than what I'm wearing. I
open my suitcase and pull out the nicest shirt I have, which
is a black formfitting shirt that has ruffles at the bottom. I've
had it for two years, but have rarely had a reason to wear it.
I stole it from Burlington Coat Factory back when me, Rone,
and Dre used to shoplift. We began shoplifting frequently,
wanting better clothes than the ones our mother bought us
from Goodwill, which look old and worn-out. We stole
hundreds of dollars' worth of clothes until we were
eventually caught by a black female cop, who took mercy
on us. She collected all our stolen merchandise and told us
not to come back or she would arrest us. “So don't come
back. Y'all hear me?” That was the end of shoplifting for me,
but not for my brothers. In fact, that was the end of all
police contact for me except when the neighbors called the
police on my parents during one of their chaotic fights.
I wonder if Mrs. and Mr. Delaney fight like my parents as I
return downstairs in my stolen shirt. “Well, shall we head
out, then?” Mr. Delaney says. “We're just going down the
street, but the restaurant can be crowded sometimes, so we
should get going.” I follow them obediently to the car. I turn
around and stare one more time at the Delaneys' massive
house. I know that this place will be a portal, in the way I
wanted that three-bedroom house to be two years ago. But
this one is a portal just for me. Not for my brothers or my
parents. I drop my head at the thought of it. My eyes well up
with both sorrow and gratitude.
I stare down at the menu, totally disoriented. There are all
these words I've never heard of before, like cannelloni and
tiramisu. We are at a fancy Italian restaurant five minutes
away. I try to scan the menu for something I'll like while Mr.
Delaney tells me all about himself. How he's an executive at
Morgan Stanley and knew from an early age he “wanted to
work in a bank next to all the money.” He asks me questions
about school and where I'm thinking of going to college
while I look over the menu in confusion. I smile plastically to
hide the anxiety bubbling up in my chest. I've never been
around an educated black man who talks like Mr. Delaney.
There are a few black male teachers at my school, but none
of them are like him. And anyway, I only know how to relate
to broken black men. Mr. Delaney seems so calm, smart,
and put together. It confuses me. I respond with short, curt
answers to most of his questions, willing him to stop asking
me things so the attention can shift focus.
Even Davante, who is one of the smartest boys I know at
school, does not act or talk like Mr. Delaney. I wonder if
Davante will become like this after he gets out of college.
Davante says he wants to go to a black college like Howard
or Morehouse, which is what his parents always hoped for.
Davante is disappointed when I tell him I'm aiming to go to
Dartmouth. “Black people, especially black people of the
diaspora, can only be truly educated and supported at black
colleges and universities,” he says. “You have to know that
you will never be able to fully integrate into historically
oppressive institutions founded on the pillars of white
supremacy. We have to always be aware of the plight of the
black man in this country and seek ways to overcome our
circumstances.” I roll my eyes at Davante, annoyed by his
newfound Malcolm X–modeled speeches, which he
occasionally switches into when he wants to make an
important point ever since the poem recital.
I try to justify my decision by arguing that an Ivy League
degree might open doors that otherwise would be closed. I
also tell him I'm tired of talking about race with him because
he never listens and only wants me to see things from his
perspective. “What about the plight of the black woman?” I
ask him. “What about all the rape, sexism, abuse we suffer
at the hands of black men in addition to having to deal with
racism in larger society just like you? You talk about the
plight of the black man all the time, but you never mention
the black woman.”
Davante always gets upset when I bring up the specific
struggles black women face and tells me I should focus on
supporting black men and that once black men are
liberated, they will liberate black women. “Besides, talking
about sexism and patriarchy is just a tool the white man
uses to divide the community,” Davante says decisively. I
want to tell him about my rape. I want him to teach me how
not to focus on it. I want to ask him why almost all the
women I know have been raped and what he plans to do
about that. And don't we have to fight that, too, the rape of
women, which happens many times at the hands of black
men? I want to tell him that either we address all the
oppression within the community wherever it rears its ugly
head, or we are not allies. I want to tell him all these things,
but he is busy rattling off statistics about the number of
black men killed by the police in the last five years. His eyes
glaze over and he erases me like he always does when we
discuss these issues.
As I'm thinking about Davante, the waiter arrives to take
our order. Mr. Delaney motions for me to order first, but I tell
him I want to take one more quick glance at the choices.
Really, I want to observe how he and Mrs. Delaney order so I
can mimic them. I watch carefully how they interact with the
waiter. When the waiter comes back to me, I order a
cheeseburger and French fries. It's the one thing on the
menu I know I'll really like. I tell him to please add extra
cheese and extra ketchup. He asks me how I'd like my
burger cooked and I say, “Not pink on the inside. All the way
cooked.” He smirks at my response and I know I haven't
chosen properly somehow. “Well done, then,” he says while
grabbing the menus and shuffling off. Neither Mrs. Delaney
nor Mr. Delaney says anything at my choice of the
cheeseburger, but I can read the subtle energy shifts in their
bodies. They wanted me to order something else. A fancy
dish to better represent my first fine-dining experience. I
feel like I have already disappointed them.
The restaurant is only the first upscale place they will
take me. They bring me to orchestra concerts, lectures,
plays, and more fancy restaurants—all places I have never
been before. All places where I feel deeply isolated. I
observe everything. How people walk, talk, and hold their
bodies, even how they use their utensils. It's still foreign to
me, but I force myself to mimic them and always make sure
to use my white-girl English when speaking.
I have high hopes for Mr. Delaney, for who he will be in
my life with his big education and fancy way of acting and
speaking. Because he is black, I expect him to wrap me into
his fold and usher me safely into the world of highfalutin
customs and procedures. I expect to grow closer to him as
time passes and maybe come to see him as a father figure.
Instead, I grow away from him. It's like he is judging and
carefully observing everything I do. I can see it in the way
he cuts his eyes sharply at me when I make a mistake. I
understand that just because someone is also black does
not automatically mean they have the capacity to nurture
you or even truly see who you are. I keep waiting for an
understanding from Mr. Delaney that never comes. Not
because he doesn't want to, but because he doesn't know
how to nurture a dark-skinned black girl.
His assault on my being begins slowly, with little
comments dropped here and there. To me, it feels like a fullblown attack. To him, it probably feels like he's playfully
batting a kitten—a poor lost kitten that he has taken in, fed,
and given shelter to—with his large paw, totally unaware of
the force and impact of that paw.
I am not fooled by his professional demeanor and
credentials. I know he cannot see me. I can tell by how he
glosses over and minimizes some of the things I say. When I
tell him I have been through some very hard things, he tells
me about how “the young generation doesn't know how
good they have it these days.” He then gives a detailed
account of all the obstacles he has overcome in his life,
including the racism he faced in his youth and career. Every
time I mention a struggle or a challenge I face personally,
he trumps it with another obstacle he personally overcame,
invalidating everything I say.
It won't stop there, however. He will also attack my
intelligence. He will repeatedly call me “dummy” and
“stupid” when I make a mistake or don't know something.
The worst will be when he calls me these things in front of
his family, all of whom are black, at family dinners and
gatherings. When others laugh at his comments, I will laugh
along, trying to appear okay. I mask the deep well of pain
his words stir up inside me. After dinner, when no one is
looking, I hide in the bathroom trying to choke back my
tears and the sense of alienation from being around
“proper” black people who laugh at my degradation. He
calls others in his family “dummy” also, but it doesn't seem
to impact them in the same way.
And there are so many other comments. He will tell me
how some of the people in his family told him not to “bring
no dark woman home,” to preserve his proper status. When
we watch TV in the living room after dinner, he will
comment on the appearance of the women on the screen,
light-skinned and whites being “fine and attractive,” not
knowing that I am waiting for him to say that a woman who
looks like me is fine or attractive also. He never does. He
will assert himself on subjects he knows nothing about, like
suicide. Saying things like, “Suicide is never the answer. I
don't care how bad life gets, there's always a way out,” not
knowing how many times I thought about killing myself in
the past. Not knowing that both of my brothers have
attempted suicide. He will marvel at the fact that I “speak
so well and don't sound ghetto at all.” Not knowing that I
understand the subtle judgments he is making. Even though
I don't talk “ghetto,” the rest of my family does, so I wonder
what he would think of them.
He will call me ugly on the day of my senior prom after I
return from getting a face full of makeup at the mall. I have
never had a face full of makeup before. When the makeup
artist finishes, I wonder if the makeup has transformed me
somehow. Has reduced the darkness of my skin color and
Africanness of my features. I wonder if I am finally pretty
now. Mrs. Delaney will present me proudly to Mr. Delaney
saying, “Doesn't she look pretty? We went to get her
makeup done. It took two hours, but I think they did a great
job.” He will gaze over at me with a smirk on his face and
say “Hmmph” so nonchalantly, so flippantly, it will take me
several moments to process his underhanded dismissal.
Each of his comments and reactions will land on me like
an arrow on a bull's-eye, hitting me in all my wounded
places. I will begin hiding in my room upstairs to avoid more
pain. The black veil will reappear, hovering nearby, waiting
to swoop down each time he hurls one of his comments at
me. I will wish Mr. Delaney were white. I could take this type
of treatment from a white man. In many ways, it would be
expected. It would be historical. It would be racial. Then I
could let it roll off me and understand it's not personal.
When I tell Mrs. Delaney that I am deeply hurt by these
things, she will try to explain: “He's like that with everyone,”
“He's just joking,” “He doesn't mean it,” “He never had
kids,” “He doesn't know how to relate to young girls.” She is
right about that. I know that if I were a boy, it would be
different. It would all be different. It would be safe for Mr.
Delaney to express all the problematic ways he has been
conditioned to not see, understand, or connect to darkskinned black women. I know that Mrs. Delaney understands
my pain, but she is married to him and so she must justify
his behavior somehow. I am constantly afraid they will ask
me to leave, so I accept her justifications and do my best to
live inside of them.
I try to focus on all the good things Mr. Delaney does. Like
when he drives me to my old neighborhood, “the ghetto,” to
get my favorite ice cream or sausages, which they only sell
in poor areas. Or when he teaches me how to drive in the
parking lot of Safeway on a Sunday afternoon after they
have closed and how he takes such care to make sure I get
everything just right. He stays out there with me all day
until I understand blind spots in the side mirrors and I can
reverse and accelerate like a pro. Or how he spends so
much time trying to prepare me for the “real world” by
teaching me important life skills like setting a table, properly
using a knife and fork, opening a bank account, and
balancing a checkbook. He says I'll have to know how to
“blend in” to certain environments because some people
will be watching and waiting to judge me just because I'm
black. When he tells me these things, I can feel his deep
concern and care for my well-being, and I can see him like
how Mrs. Delaney must see him as a warm and
compassionate person.
I will try to suckle nectar from the fruit of his actions and
make it mean something to my heart. I will try to make
these things feel like love, but I can't. All I feel are wounds.
And I need a target, a place to aim my resentment for how
badly I have been treated by the men in my life. Not only for
the wounds he has given me, but the wounds from all the
rest of them as well: my biological father, my stepfather, the
flesh man, and Prince Mack. This is what Davante doesn't
understand. He doesn't see all the wounds I have from black
men also. His wounds are from “the man,” and mine are
from men, all the men, including black men. And I want Mr.
Delaney to pay for all of their sins. Because he, out of all of
them, should know better. I want him to be available to me
in a real way. I need him to be what I hoped he would be,
but people rarely turn out the way you hope they will. I am
only seventeen, but I have learned this lesson many times
already.
When we return home, after that first dinner, I again sit on
the edge of my bed, with a belly full of cheeseburger and
fries. I try to identify all the new feelings stirring inside.
Something between giddy enthusiasm and deep fear, like
standing on the edge of a mountain you just climbed. I
wonder how many more things won't turn out like I want,
even after I have climbed to the top. How much more
disappointment will there be? I turn the lights out and lay
my head on my pillow, which has a fresh new case that
smells like lavender and peppermint. None of the pillows at
our apartment have pillowcases, or if they do, they are old
with holes in them. I take another deep breath and then
close my eyes, waiting for sleep to wash over me.
Elena comes over to Mrs. Delaney's house two days after
the restaurant dinner. “Do you like it here?” she asks when
we get upstairs to my room. I shrug my shoulders and say
it's quiet and peaceful, but I'm nervous about how things
will go with Mr. Delaney. “And you didn't tell your parents?”
Elena asks. “They don't know where you are?” I shake my
head no and say they are probably too drunk or strung out
to notice anyway. “Wow,” she says. “My mom would have
put out a missing persons alert.” Elena keeps looking
around the room while I lie on the bed thumbing through
one of my textbooks. When we hear a knock at the door
suddenly, we both sit up and stare. “Come in,” I say finally
while clearing my throat. I'm not used to people knocking. In
my apartment, everyone just barges in when they want
something.
Mrs. Delaney walks in carrying a tray of snacks and two
glasses of fresh lemonade. “I thought you might be a little
hungry, so I wanted to bring you something to munch on
until dinner.” Elena and I watch her in silence as she sets
the tray on the dresser. She lingers for a little while and
looks like she wants to stay and talk. I ask her if she wants
to sit down. She sits in the armchair next to the bed. At first
she sits quietly, listening to Elena and me talk all about
classes at our different schools, crushes, school dances, and
college applications. Eventually, Mrs. Delaney starts telling
us all about her life, about what it was like when she was in
high school. How she knew she was going to be a teacher
since she was in first grade. “I just knew there was nothing
else I wanted to do in the world,” she says. Elena and I both
listen and marvel at the life experience of someone almost
triple our age. “I wonder what I'll be like when I'm that old,”
Elena says before catching herself. “I mean, when I get
older. You're not that old, Mrs. Delaney.”
Mrs. Delaney smiles amusedly, fixes the hemline of her
dress, and says, “It took me a long time to learn wizardry. To
understand what it was and how to wield it.” Elena and I
both look at each other in shock when she says this. I had
wondered how Mrs. Delaney had remained unfrozen during
the poem, how she'd seemed to be able to see and
understand me on deeper levels, what she'd meant by
“important things that can't be taught in books,” but I
hadn't been certain until now. Elena and I sit excitedly on
the edge of our seats as she continues. “I was resistant for a
long time because I was afraid of the responsibility that
comes with this kind of power, but now I know in my old age
it's better to be powerful and integrated than fearful and
internally split.” I briefly wonder about all the things Mrs.
Delaney knows. I try to imagine what she might have seen
over the course of her life, what miracles she's conducted,
what she's learned about how to navigate all this. After
Elena and I share with Mrs. Delaney all our miracles, she
begins explaining many of the things we have been
confused about. She explains why time stops right before a
miracle, what the in-between is, and why it's so hard to
permanently get rid of the black veil.
“Well,” Mrs. Delaney begins, “to me, a miracle is an
occurrence that bends the normal laws of reality. The
possibility for a miracle at any given time is always there,
but only a wizard can seize that possibility to execute a
miracle by connecting to a different realm, which is why the
time stops. The miracle happens outside of normal time and
space.
“As far as the in-between goes, it's a portal between this
world and the next. It contains all the energy of the
universe, including past spirits that have moved on. The inbetween can assist us in conducting our miracles by
spiraling messages to us when we're ready to receive them
and grow. Sometimes the messages are transmitted through
little details in nature.
“The above plane is where we go to conduct miracles of
understanding, like rising from darkness, regrowing light, or
changing the trajectory of someone's life.”
Mrs. Delaney says she has one more very important thing
to tell us about receptivity, which is also the sixteenth
lesson of wizard training. “All of this magic depends on you,”
Mrs. Delaney says. “The most important thing I want you to
remember from all I've shared is that everything unfolds in
its own time. You can't force your development as a wizard,
or come to know things before you are ready. The miracles
and revelations emerge based on your own progress and
eagerness, which is why some wizards don't even realize
what they are until late in life. So the key to growing and
expanding is to remain in an open state of receptivity. You
must carefully cultivate receptivity in the same way you
cultivate light. Then you will become quickly aware of
what's happening around you and what to do next.”
Elena and I glance at each other in astonishment before
saying, “Wowww.”
“Boy, am I glad I didn't take the blue pill,” Elena says
enthusiastically while looking at me. “Everyone says the
rabbit hole is scary, but I literally never want to leave. Don't
try and beam me back up, Scotty, because this is a-ma-zing.
How long did it take you to learn all that stuff, Mrs.
Delaney?” Elena asks.
“A very long time, but it won't take you as long because
I'm going to keep teaching you everything I know, just not
today.” Mrs. Delaney stands up and walks toward the door
while saying, “I've got to start dinner before Dennis gets
home. Just holler if you need anything else.”
When it's finally time for dinner, Elena and I wash up (I
now know that means to wash your hands and maybe fix
your hair). We sit at the dinner table staring at the feast of
macaroni and cheese, baked chicken, roasted brussels
sprouts, and mashed potatoes. The apple pie with vanilla ice
cream will come later. Mr. Delaney is more relaxed tonight
than he was at the restaurant. I wonder if dinner will be like
this every night. We eat and talk for an hour until the phone
rings. Mrs. Delaney gets up to answer it and when she
returns to the table, we see by the look on her face that
something is wrong. “Echo,” she says cautiously. “Um, it's
your brother Dre, and he says your mom … well, she's in a
coma at the hospital. She had an overdose.”
I listen to the words coming out of Mrs. Delaney's mouth
in slow motion. I wonder if a miracle is about to happen,
because it feels like the time winds down. But the time isn't
winding down; my mind is just unable to process the words.
“An overdose?” I cry in disbelief. Mrs. Delaney asks if I want
her to drive me to the hospital, but I shake my head no. I
don't want my mother to see the person I moved in with
without telling her. “Okay, how about a taxi?” I nod yes. “I'll
come with you,” Elena says, but I tell her no also. Mr.
Delaney tries one last plea to come with me. “No one should
have to deal with this kind of thing alone. Let us come with
you.” I look into all three of their sympathetic faces and
shake my head no again. The guilt at having left my family
and now this happening is unbearable. I'm also used to
handling all my problems by myself. I don't know how to
allow others to help me. Inside, I wish they could just ignore
what I say and come with me, but they don't. They believe
my charade of not wanting them to come.
I bolt out of the Delaneys' house into the taxi all by
myself. I stare out the window in a daze as the scenery
outside the car changes from statuesque West Side houses
to broken-down East Side apartment buildings. Watching the
transformation between worlds further adds to my sadness.
When I finally arrive at the hospital, I race inside to find my
mother's room. Dre is sitting in a chair next to her bed by
himself. He was home when she overdosed and he doesn't
know where Rone and Dad are. He's slumped over and I see
tears falling from his eyes.
“Hi, Dre,” I say while walking into the room.
He runs over, gives me a hug, and starts pleading, “Is she
gon' die, Echo?! I don't want her to die, Echo! Please come
back home, Echo. Please come home! It ain't da same
witout you.”
I try to hold myself together. Try to be strong for the both
of us. “She's going to be all right, Dre,” I say. “She always
pulls through.” The words fall out of my mouth, but I don't
know if they are true.
The doctor walks into the room and introduces herself.
She is a white lady with red hair and freckles. She motions
for Dre and me to sit in the chairs across the room from my
mother's bed. “Do you have a guardian here with you? Your
father or another family member?” the white lady doctor
asks.
“No, but I'm eighteen,” I lie, in case she says she can only
release patient information to adults.
She looks skeptical momentarily but takes a deep breath
and says, “Your mom suffered an overdose and a psychotic
break.”
Dre interrupts her, yelling in a shaky voice, “Is our mother
gonna die? Is she?!”
The doctor smiles warmly at him and shakes her head no.
“Don't worry, she's not going to die. We were able to pump
her stomach and give her fluids to help restore her body to
balance, but she is still in a fragile psychological state. We
had to restrain her and put her on a high dose of Haldol,
which is an antipsychotic drug, but it takes a week or two to
kick in. We are going to transfer her to the psychiatric ward
after her physical condition improves. It would only be for
seventy-two hours to monitor her progress. We just want to
make sure she doesn't harm herself or someone else.” I
stare at the doctor in disbelief. My mother, despite her
addiction, has been my rock. Has helped sustain me and my
brothers through all of it. Seeing the looks of sadness in
Dre's and my eyes, the white lady doctor begins speaking
again. “I don't know what's going to happen with your
mother, but what I can tell you is for her to still be here
fighting after everything she's gone through, I imagine she
must be one strong woman. A lot of people don't make it
back from something like this.”
Many people have called my mother strong—relatives,
neighbors, friends, teachers. Those same people have called
me strong, too. They have said wizards are unbreakable, but
I'm not sure anymore. They call us warriors because we
survive it and they call us strong because it doesn't topple
us. They call us magic because we manage to make
miracles out of it. “Wow! Look at her take it all! She's so
strong!” But for us, it's not a victory. It's a bloodbath. What
happens after the bloodbath, when we finally fall?
When I walk over to my mother's bed and gaze down at
her, unconscious and hooked up to several machines, she
looks like dust to me, beaten down and shattered. Finally,
shattered. I have never seen my mother like this, without
her strength. The sight of it frightens and confuses me. If
the rock of our family can fall, then where does that leave
the rest of us? Immediately, I feel a bigger surge of guilt at
having left and begin reevaluating my plans and
reimagining my life. I'll move back home. I won't go to
college. I'll try to get a permanent job as a lab assistant at
the Cleveland Clinic and stay home and take care of
everything. I think of all the ways I will have to become the
rock of our family if this is the end of my mother. She is so
young, only thirty-nine, so I hope this is not the end of her.
LESSON 17
Forgiving Yourself
The next few days are a blur, an endless loop of going back
and forth to the hospital. An endless loop of various people
from around the neighborhood visiting and saying they
“cain't believe Ms. Aprah done fallen. Not Ms. Aprah wit' all
dat strength.” And an endless loop of my mother remaining
unresponsive in a coma in her hospital bed throughout all
the visits. I've moved back into my apartment indefinitely
until she rises from the dead, like she always does. Every
time I walk into the hospital, I pray her eyes are open, but
they never are.
On the fourth day after her overdose, I am waiting at the
bus stop to go to the hospital when I see Tiffany running
toward me. “I'm coming wit' you,” she says. “I heard what
happened to yo momma. I been meanin' to go up dere and
see her.” I don't want Tiffany to come with me, but I can tell
by the look in her eyes she is determined to join. Maybe she
feels sympathy for me after what happened with her own
mother. Maybe she still feels bad for jumping me with her
friends. Whatever it is, she stands at my side now like we
are sisters about to face a storm together. We are finally
sisters after everything that's happened.
The bus comes and we ride together in silence, not
knowing what to say to each other. She asks me how I feel.
“Numb.”
“I know da feelin',” she responds.
“How's Lil Man?” I ask.
“Oh, he okay. I'm takin' care a' him. He ain't so lil no mo.
He already out on da corna slangin'.”
I tell her my brothers are also out there on the block with
the rest of the dope boys.
“I'm thinkin' 'bout applyin' to community college. Maybe
gettin' an associate's degree or somethin' like dat to take
care a' Lil Man while he still in school.”
I look over toward Tiffany for the first time on the bus ride
and tell her that sounds like a good idea.
When the bus finally pulls up outside the hospital, I take a
deep breath to try to stop the emotion already bubbling up
in my throat. It starts every time I get here, but I don't want
Tiffany to see. “Hey, it's something else I wanted to ask
you,” she says as we walk through the hallways of the
hospital. “Two weeks ago, when you was up dere doin' dat
poem—I really like how you redid dat poem, by the way. You
was up dere and I thought I seen somethin'. I'on' want you
ta think I'm crazy or nothin' like dat, but I thought … I mean,
I felt like everything was moving in slow motion or
somethin', and den I seen dese black things up by the
ceiling. I know it sound crazy. I wasn't high or nothin', but
dat's what I saw during your poem.” I turn and stare at
Tiffany in disbelief. How could she know all these things …
unless she is a wizard, too?
I don't have time to respond before we get to the room
and I notice my mother is not there. I run to the nurses'
station down the hall to ask where she is.
I assume the worst. “Is my mother dead?!” I scream. “Did
she die?! Why didn't anyone call me?!”
The nurse tells me to calm down. “Your mom woke up last
night out of her coma. We moved her to the psychiatric
ward for further observation. She's in room 410, on the
fourth floor. You can go on up.”
Tiffany and I race up the stairs. When we finally reach
room 410, I am relieved to see my mother lying there,
asleep in her bed. I walk over and grab her hand. I am
overcome by the sensation of her warm, living hand, which
means she is still alive, still here. I suddenly feel an
immense wave of compassion for Tiffany. What must it be
like to be in this world without your mother? How is she
functioning and going about her daily life? How is she even
standing? My mother is still here, and I am already on my
knees.
I stay there by my mother's side until I hear someone
talking behind me.
“I asked y'all to leave me alone today. Tell 'em I got to
keep cleanin' up.”
I turn around to ask Tiffany what's she talking about, but
there is someone else in the room. It's a black woman in a
hospital gown sweeping the floor.
“What did you say?” I ask in confusion. “I think you have
the wrong room.”
The woman continues sweeping and talking to herself
without any acknowledgment of me and Tiffany. I realize
she's mentally somewhere else. Tiffany and I both watch her
silently for a few seconds as she sweeps all around the
room. I wonder why they would have a patient cleaning the
rooms. I dismiss the whole scene and turn back to my
mother, bowing my head and spiraling more prayers on her
behalf.
The woman stays a few more minutes before walking
toward the door, continuing to sweep while talking to
herself. I am relieved to hear her leaving. Her presence
disturbs me. Suddenly, the woman whips her head around in
my direction, makes direct eye contact with me, and says,
“Hey! Yo momma says meet her in the above plane. She up
there waiting for you. Might be the last time, so betta head
up dere fo it's too late. If she get stuck up dere, she'a turn
out like me or worse. So betta gone on up.” The woman
walks quickly toward the door while repeating, “In the above
plane, betta gone on up,” and switching off the lights. As
soon as she turns off the lights, the time starts to rapidly
wind down.
Tiffany jumps up and yells, “What's happening?! What's
going on?!” The ceiling disappears, and two light beams
begin to form in the dark space above. They point in our
direction before spiraling down and shooting directly into
our foreheads. We are both compelled to close our eyes.
Initially, I assume the lights are spiraling some kind of
message to us, like all the times before, but when the room
begins to shake, I know something else is happening. We
are both transfixed, suspended in the middle of the room
while the light spirals into our foreheads. I try to reach for
Tiffany's hand, like I always do with Elena. I can feel the fear
pouring out of her body. As soon as our hands touch, a
stream of memories is transmitted from me to Tiffany:
Miracle at Titanic, the juvenile detention miracle, Elena's
miracle, and the poem in Mrs. Delaney's class all flash
before my eyes and are sent to Tiffany. I also receive an
upload from her: I see Tiffany fearfully sitting on the ceiling
when one of her mother's friends came into her room late at
night and not understanding how she got up there. I see
birds circling above her on the day of her mother's death,
trying to warn her of what is to come.
When the upload is complete, the room stops shaking,
but our eyes are still closed. My eyelids feel heavy, like they
weigh a thousand pounds. I tell Tiffany we should count to
three and try to open them. We both take a deep breath,
count to three, and force them open. We are stunned by
what we see. We are no longer in the hospital room, but at a
beach. A vast beach with no beginning and no end. The sun
shines and the sand seems to stretch for miles. There's
nothing around but three white beach chairs to our left and
a red bucket right next to the shoreline.
“Where are we?” Tiffany asks. “This is weird as fuck! Yo,
how do we get back home?! What the fuck is going on?! And
look!” Tiffany points to the lighthouse across the water in
front of us. “Don't dat look jus' like da lighthouse up at Lake
Erie? Yo, remember when we almost drowned up dere?!
What da fuck is happening right now?!”
Tiffany starts freaking out, but I grab both of her
shoulders and tell her to breathe. “We are in the above
plane, I think, which is part of the in-between. I'll teach you
about all that stuff later, I promise. Right now, we need to
figure out what's going on.”
Just as I finish telling her that, I see a form far in the
distance, all the way down the beach, walking toward us. I
point, and Tiffany spins around and screams, “Oh shit! Oh
shit! Now, who is that?” I tell her to relax and that
everything is going to be okay, even though I am terrified.
“It's gonna be fine,” I say more for myself than for her.
The form moves slowly, without apparent awareness that
we have been waiting here patiently, in the middle of
nowhere. I become increasingly concerned about where my
mother is and how we will get back to the hospital room.
Mary Jacobs is not here to guide us this time, so I don't
know what is going to happen. The form draws closer and
closer, and I see that it's a woman dressed in all white. I
can't see her face yet, but the way she walks feels familiar
to me. The closer she gets, the more familiar she seems.
When she is only a few feet away and I recognize her, I
stumble backward in shock. Tiffany grabs my arm, catching
me before I fall.
“Mom?” I say when she is standing right in front of me.
“Hi, baby,” she says before giving me a hug.
She looks so different here, ethereal and angelic. I have
never seen my mother like this, so peaceful. I ask her how it
is possible she is here and if it means she has died. I start
shaking my head, “No, no, no, no, Mom, please tell me you
aren't dead! Please, Mom, please!” She places a hand on
my shoulder and I instantly feel a wave of deep, penetrating
calm.
“I'm not dead, baby. Jus' got somethin' important to do
here and I know I cain't go back down dere unless I do it.”
Tiffany doesn't say a word and just stares like she's looking
at a ghost. My mother places a hand on Tiffany's shoulder
and tells her, “Everything will be explained in due time. You
gon' be awright, sweetie, even without your mother down
there. I promise, you gon' survive it.”
My mother starts walking toward the white beach chairs.
Tiffany and I follow her and ask what happens next. “I'on'
know,” my mother says. “We just have ta wait.” We sprawl
out on the beach chairs and marvel at the ocean in front of
us. “Wowww, I neva been to da ocean befo',” Tiffany says. “I
wish I could swim. I'd go see if I can find me some dolphins.”
My mother tells Tiffany she can swim here and that she
should go give it a try. “Nah, dat's okay,” Tiffany says with
trepidation. “Maybe next time.” My mother begins sharing
memories from her life. “My momma use'ta brang me to a
beach just like this when I was a real lil girl. She gimme a lil
red bucket and I'a go and fill it up wit' sand, den pour it out
and make lil sand castles. She be lookin' at me makin' dem
sand castles and ask, ‘Guess how much I love you?' I'd say,
I'on' know, Momma, how much? She'd point down and say
mo dan all da grains of sand on dis beach. And I'a look up at
huh in confusion and say, ‘But it's infinity sand out here.'
She'a look down at me, smile, and say, ‘Exactly, baby. Dat's
exactly how much.'” My mother stops speaking and I notice
she is crying. I try to think of something to say to make her
feel better, but I decide to leave her be in the harmony of
our surroundings.
I suddenly notice there are sand castles right next to the
water. “Hey, did the sand castles you used to build look like
those over there? They just appeared.”
My mother looks over and nods her head. “Yes, my God,
yes.” She stands up and walks toward the sand castles. She
kneels down in front of them, touching them before starting
to weep like I've never seen her weep before. “I'm so sorry,
Momma. I wish I could take it all back. I'm so sorry.” She sits
there on her knees, sobbing. Tiffany asks if we should do
something, but I don't know what to do, so we just sit while
she cries and cries.
All the way down the beach, I see another form start to
materialize. I point and yell, “Look!” “What should we do?”
Tiffany asks. “Should we tell your mother?” My mother is
still sitting solemnly on her knees, staring at the sand
castles. I don't want to disturb her, so we just watch as the
form gets closer and closer.
Eventually, we see that it's another woman who is also
dressed in white. She looks much older and has silver hair
that sits in a bun on top of her head. She walks over to my
mother and touches her on the shoulder. My mother spins
around and starts yelling, “Momma?! Momma?! It cain't be
you. Momma, is dat you?!” The woman gives my mother a
hug and then sits down next to her. “Hi, baby,” she says,
just like my mother said to me. “I know it's been a rough
road for you down there. I know how hard it's been. It wasn't
your fault, baby. You didn't know. And I want you to know I
forgive you, my sweet girl. I forgive you a million times over
in this life and the next.” Hearing these words causes my
mother to start weeping again. “I'm so sorry, Momma. I'm
so sorry,” she cries out. “I wished every day dat I could take
it all back. Dat it could'a been me instead'a you. I just cain't
live wit' it anymore, Momma. I just cain't live.” My mother's
mother places a hand on her shoulder and says, “I know,
baby. That's why I've come to tell you that you have to
forgive yourself. The time has come to forgive yourself. You
can't go back down there until you do.” My mother starts
shaking her head no repeatedly. “I cain't do dat, Momma.
What I did is unforgivable. What kind a' person 'cept a
monster would do dat kind of thing? I cain't do it, Momma.
I'd rather stay here wit' you. I don't wanna leave, Momma. I
cain't lose you again. I wanna stay here wit' you.” My
mother's mother looks at her with such compassion and
love, I understand why my mother doesn't want to leave.
“I can't stay here forever, baby. In fact, I don't have much
time left. And I don't want you to be trapped in this place all
alone. So you have to find the courage to forgive yourself.”
My mother shakes her head again and says, “I cain't,
Momma.” Suddenly, the clouds darken and grow in volume.
They become rounded and puffy. The ocean water starts to
churn and ripple. Tiffany and I both run over to my mother
and grandmother and ask what's happening. My
grandmother doesn't acknowledge us and instead urges my
mother again and again, “Forgive yourself, baby. Do it now,
baby. We're running out of time.”
Way out in the middle of the ocean, I see a small boat
rowing toward us. Just as I notice the boat, the clouds
dissolve entirely and the space above turns black. A scene
starts playing like it's a movie screen. “Yo, dis shit is wild as
fuck,” Tiffany says as we both stare up at the sky above.
In the projected scene, I see my mother in the hospital
room below. The one we just came from. My mother is going
into cardiac arrest. Her heart has stopped. The doctors
attempt to save her as Tiffany and I wait in the hospital
lobby. I see them attaching a defibrillator as one of the
doctors yells, “Clear!” I scream, “What's happening? Is my
mother dying down there?! What's happening?!” No one
responds. The scene continues to unfold. Tiffany and I watch
as they shock my mother's chest again and again, but her
heart won't start. One of the doctors says, “Let's call the
time of death at seven thirty-eight p.m.” Another doctor
pleads with him to keep trying. He is hesitant initially but
agrees to continue. We watch as they reattach the
defibrillator and once again shock my mother's chest, which
heaves upward with unnatural force and momentum.
“You have to do it now!” my grandmother yells. “Do it
now, baby!” The boat that was initially way out in the
middle of the ocean now docks a few feet away from us. A
third woman, also dressed in white, comes running toward
us at lightning speed. Tiffany stands up and suddenly
shouts, “Mom?! Mom!” The woman grabs Tiffany into her
arms with such intensity, I think she might squeeze her to
death. “Mom! I miss you so much. I miss you every day. I
think about you as soon as I wake up and before I go to
bed.” Tiffany's mother holds Tiffany's face in her hands.
“Listen, baby, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry I couldn't fix it
before it was too late. Before I came here. I want you to
know I love you. I always did. More than you can ever know.
And when you get back down there, you gon' have to make
a choice, awright. I want you to choose the light, okay,
baby? Can you do that for me?” Tiffany responds frantically,
“I don't know what you're talking about, Mom. I don't know
what you mean.” Tiffany's mother gives her another hug
before running back to the boat. She pauses in front of my
mother and says, “Forgive yourself, Aprah. Not for you, but
for your baby. You can still go back to her. I'd give anything
to go back to mine.” Tiffany starts to run after her mother,
but her mother forcefully stops her. “You cain't come wit'
me. I'a see you again,” she promises. “I love you, baby.” We
watch as she gets back in the boat and rows into the
churning ocean water.
The Code Blue in the hospital scene continues. The doctor
says, “I think we've lost her, but let's try one last time.”
My mother lifts herself up off the sand and announces
into the ocean, “Okay! Okay! You win. I forgive myself! For
killing my momma. For all the ways I failed my babies. April
Marie Brown, you are forgiven.” She sinks back into the
ground, released.
The seventeenth lesson of wizard training is that
forgiveness is inescapable. We are all destined for mistakes,
transgressions, and impossible circumstances beyond our
control. You can either choose to forgive yourself and be
free, or suffocate under the weight of ghosts and
graveyards.
The doctor yells, “Clear!” We watch as my mother's chest
heaves upward one last time and her heartbeat forcefully
returns. “She's back!” the doctor screams. “Incredible.” The
medical staff is cheering in delight and disbelief. The doctor
who suggested they keep trying beams with joy.
My mother's mother hugs her after she forgives herself,
wrapping her totally in her arms. “You did it, baby. You did it.
When you go back everything will be different. You aren't
carrying that big, heavy weight anymore. I'm so proud of
you. I'll see you next time, okay?” My grandmother then
looks over at Tiffany and me, who have been watching in
shock nearby, while continuing to cradle my mother's body
in her arms. “Go home,” she says suddenly, and Tiffany and
I both collapse onto the sand.
When we wake up, there is music blaring from the speakers.
We are in prom dresses as people dance and twirl around
us. We stand there in the middle of the dance floor
motionless, like we've just seen the afterlife—because
maybe we did? Jin runs up to us and says, “What's wrong
wit' y'all? Let's dance!” He grabs my hand and starts to
swing me around and around. I try to keep up while also
struggling to process what just happened. Tiffany goes and
sits on the bleachers by herself. I can see she is shaken and
disturbed, and so am I. I'm spinning, but I'm not smiling or
laughing. I keep thinking about the above plane, about my
mother and her miraculous recovery. She's still here, I
remind myself softly. I'm so grateful she's still here. Tears
start to form in my eyes.
Jin whips me around and says, “Gurl, why you in the
sunken place right now? You betta cheer up! We almost
seniors! Eyyy, we only got one more year of high school
left!”
Jin starts chanting, “One more year! One more year!”
Several students hear and join in his excitement until there
is a chorus of chants across the room.
Even Jessie, who attends special ed classes at Tarver and
brought Elena as his date, is chanting. He won't graduate
for another two years, but can't resist a good cheer. He
claps gleefully until Elena grabs the back of his wheelchair
and spins him around. Once Jin releases me, Davante steps
in and asks if he can have the next dance. I hesitate,
teasing him, like I always do. The Tarver Six, including
Davante, all came as a group, but I can see in Davante's
eyes he still wishes I was his date. I want to slow dance with
Davante, but I'm still traumatized by what happened with
Prince Mack. My body sends so many confusing signals, I
feel like I'm going to pass out. I look over at him and ask
why he likes me, out of all the other girls.
“'Cause you smart, and you beautiful,” he says, “and I
think you really special. Like different from all da other girls.
I can just tell.”
We stand there awkwardly in silence for a few more
seconds before he grabs my pinky finger and holds on to it. I
smile and then turn toward him, curling into his chest. He
wraps his arms around me and the fragrance of his cologne
hypnotizes me, drawing me closer and closer to him. Then
the music goes off abruptly. The DJ announces that was the
last song.
Davante yells in disappointment, “Aww, come on, man!
Just play one more. I finally got her.”
The DJ ignores Davante's protests and starts packing up
his equipment.
“You don't have me,” I whisper playfully in Davante's ear
while untucking myself out of his arms.
He smiles and says, “A'ight, y'all girls always playin' hard
ta get.”
The Tarver Six, Elena, Tiffany, and Jessie all head outside
and sit on the curb in front of the school. We suck on grape
Popsicles that were passed out earlier at the dance. Tiffany
and I are mostly silent while everyone else talks jovially
among themselves. We stare up at the full moon in the sky.
Elena says she wishes her girlfriend (whom her parents
don't know about) were here, but she's out of town with her
family.
Rodman, who apparently has been trying to hit on Elena
all night, shouts, “You gay?! Man, who knew.” After noticing
that Elena has taken offense to his comments, he backs off
and says, “I mean, dat's cool. Nothin' wrong wit' dat. Jin
gay, too. We don't discriminate in the Tarver Six.” Still,
disappointment stains his voice and mires his forced smile.
Davante asks how many planets we think are up there in
the sky and if they have racism in their worlds, too. “I don't
know,” I say. “But I bet some pretty amazing stuff happens
way up there in the sky.” Tiffany glances over at me while
Elena knowingly smiles. We all sit in silence for a few
seconds, staring up until Jin blurts out, “Gurl, you know
where I wanna go? I wanna go to Iceland.” Everyone shouts
at the same time in surprise, “Iceland?!” “It ain't cold
enough in Cleveland for you?” Rodman asks. “I wanna see
da Northern Lights,” Jin explains. “It's at da top of da world,
and you can see all dese colorful beams in da sky. You know
I would fit right in wit' all dat color. I think maybe dat's my
true home.”
LESSON 18
Surrendering to the Beyond
Junior prom fades into senior year at warp speed. Suddenly,
there is so much to get done before it's almost over: college
applications, senior pictures, and final projects. I try to keep
up with everything that's happening, but suddenly the last
four months of my senior year roll in like a slow mist over
Lake Erie. Initially, I am wary of the mist, wondering what
havoc it will wreak, what changes it will bring. If I will
survive it. I know that by the time the mist rolls out,
everything will be different. Everything is already different.
After my mother's miracle in the above plane, Tiffany and
I somehow time-jumped right into the middle of our junior
prom. I moved back in with Mrs. Delaney after helping my
mother recover over the summer and the first part of senior
year. Dre and Rone have slowed down their chaos-making
for now, alarmed at the experience of almost losing our
mother, and Dad, too, is on his best behavior, but I know it
is only a matter of time before they start hitting the block
again. My mother, who seems to be standing right side up
for the first time in her life, says she is determined not to
spin more webs of chaos.
I don't believe it until I see her at one of the Saturdaynight spades parties. Instead of participating in the usual
procession in and out of the bathroom, she has transformed
into the caregiver at the parties, tending to those who pass
out on the floor, are too drunk or high to go home, or are
cloaked in the black veil. She moves around the room with a
new radiance, gently looking after everyone, whispering all
around the room in a calm and compassionate voice,
“That's enough, now. That's enough.” Everyone seems to
understand and welcome her new role, even though they
don't know about the instigating miracle in the above plane.
Some ask her questions: “So you done gone straight and
narrow now, Ms. Aprah? Well, good fo you. Pass me dem
baggies, will you?” It's interesting to me how a person can
change so much on the inside while their environment
remains the same—and then how different that same
environment looks after the change. I wonder how different
this place will look when I come back from college. If the
place that made me will eventually feel like Mars.
Not only is my mother different at her spades parties, but
she also sits with Mary Jacobs late at night, drinking from a
white mug, “absorbin' and learnin' ev'rythang she got ta
teach me.” Sometimes, even Ms. Jannie, who is still a
fervent Christian, at least on the surface, comes and sits
with them during their late-night talks. “I knew y'all would
get here 'ventually. We all get dere 'ventually,” Mary Jacobs
says while laughing quietly to herself. I wonder if they will
conduct any more miracles together. If they will use their
newfound power of three to help any more young girls. I
also wonder what it would be like to join them out there,
three ancient wizards on a porch at midnight, but I'm still
too intimidated by Mary Jacobs to find out.
Everything hasn't turned out perfectly, however. My
mother is now diabetic, which contributed to her overdose
being so bad. The doctors discovered that her blood sugar
had severely spiked while she was at the hospital. Her
kidneys are also functioning poorly, probably from years of
drinking pop and alcohol over water, which means she has
to go for dialysis twice a month. “I don't mind one bit,” my
mother says. “I'm jus' happy ta still be here. Lawd, I'm so
happy to still be here wit' all of y'all down here on da good
earth.” Not long after her first dialysis treatment, my mother
tells me she knows I have to go back and live with Mrs.
Delaney. She knows there are things I still need to learn and
she won't interfere. I am astounded at my mother's clarity
and newly developed insight. She has risen, I think to
myself, echoing Mrs. Delaney's words from the day of the
poem recitals. Here she is, finally.
Everything seems to have mostly fallen into place going
into senior spring. And now there are only four months left. I
know they will fly by in a flash, so I start running, trying to
keep up, barely stopping to eat, sleep, or breathe. I rise, run
to school, run to class, run to the Cleveland Clinic, study for
final exams, wait on pins and needles for college
acceptance letters, order my cap and gown, write articles
for the school newspaper, and search for inspiration for my
valedictory speech, which I have been struggling to write for
weeks. The pressure of trying to say something that
captures the essence of 122 graduating seniors' high school
experience is overwhelming, and also thrilling. I wonder
what Alexis would do, but then I shake my head and remind
myself that it's my speech and all I have to do is “be
authentic and honest and give my best testimony,” as
Pastor Duneberry always says.
Pastor Duneberry is Mr. Delaney's pastor at St. John's
African Methodist Episcopal, the oldest black church in
Cleveland. Mr. Delaney said he and his family have been
going there since World War II. On the night before
graduation, they will be having a special program called the
Heart of the Black Man with a visiting preacher from Ghana.
Mrs. and Mr. Delaney want us all to go together, including
my father and brothers, but I'm hesitant given the fact that I
still have so much rage toward black men and the fact that I
now feel uncomfortable in churches. I still don't know if
there is a God, one that made the in-between and all the
world we live in, but I know I'm not a Christian. That said, I
have been eager to have Mrs. and Mr. Delaney spend time
with the rest of my family—they have only met my mother
so far—so I tell them I'll think about coming.
Even though Mr. Delaney has softened toward me under
his wife's influence, I still don't feel entirely safe or seen
around him. I mainly hide in my room and smile plastically
to conceal my unease with our relationship. One night when
they think I am sleeping, I overhear a heated conversation
between them in the living room. I sit at the top of the
staircase, careful not to creak any of the wooden
floorboards, craning my neck over the banister to catch
every word. They are talking very quietly, but I can still
hear, thanks to the enhanced acoustics in the stairwell.
“Look at how much I've already helped her, Marleen. I
mean, I taught her how to drive, I bought her school clothes
for this year, I've been driving her to college visits wherever
she wants to go. Honestly, what more can I do, honey?” I
become enraged listening to Mr. Delaney's words. Why do
men always think material things can make up for what they
don't give emotionally?
“Yes, you have done everything I've asked and have
agreed to open our home to her,” Mrs. Delaney answers.
“But, Dennis, you haven't shown her your heart. You have
shown her generosity, but I promise you she needs your
heart more than she needs your money. Don't you
remember what it was like to be young and confused in the
world? Don't you remember how much you complained
about your mom and dad not being there for you even
though they gave you everything you needed? She has to
see who you are at the core, or you will never find a way to
really meet each other, and how sad that would be. You
didn't sign up for any of this, I know that. You never wanted
kids, and now I've pushed one on you. All I'm saying is, try
to put yourself in her shoes. Her biological father abandoned
her before she was even born, her stepfather drinks, and
her brothers are slowly self-destructing. You have a real
chance to make a positive impact, and not just with material
things.”
I am surprised that Mrs. Delaney understands my biggest
issue with her husband. I return to my room and decide I'm
not going to the Heart of the Black Man sermon. I don't want
to hear more black men talking about how hard it is for
them while not listening to the struggles of black women. I
don't want to keep fighting for the liberation of black men
when they don't seem to be equally concerned about
fighting for me.
The turmoil of it tears me apart inside, but I don't know
how to heal my wounds and mend the gap. I wonder if black
men at college will be different. If all that education will help
them understand the plight of the black woman, or if they
will just find new ways to justify their blind spot like Mr.
Delaney. I hope college will be different.
When my first college response letter arrives, I just stare
blankly at it. Mrs. Delaney has placed it unopened in the
middle of my bed. It is from Kenyon College, which is not my
first choice, but this letter will set the tone and my
expectations for all the other letters to come. I decide to
wait and open it when I get to the dialysis clinic later that
day. I know my mother will be thrilled to have me open the
letter in front of her.
I try to meet my mother at the clinic every time she has
to go, even though I hate seeing her in any kind of hospitallike facility with tubes running out of her. But I know it
means a lot to her for me to be there, so I've gone to almost
every appointment. By the time I arrive at the dialysis
center after school, the nurses have already hooked her up.
She is lying on the bed with various tubes running out of
her, staring at the ceiling.
“What you thinking about?” I ask while walking in.
“Oh, hey, girl. You know, I was just lyin' here thankin'
about maybe takin' me one a' dem cookin' classes up at dat
recreation center. I mean, I already knows how to cook soul
food, but maybe I can learn how to make some of dem fancy
white dishes. What you thank 'bout dat?”
I lean down and give her a kiss on the forehead and say,
“I think that's a great idea. And you can add your own soulfood twist. Oh, and maybe you can start selling plates to
make some money on the side or something like that.”
I watch as a bird flies past the window outside and am
suddenly stricken with unease. I just can't believe and trust
that my mother has changed so dramatically. “Mom, what if
it all comes back? The temptation. The black veil. What if it
comes back?” My voice trails off from the sadness of
thinking about it.
“It already done come back, baby. I don't thank it ever
really go away. It's always somewhere nearby. Both da
temptation and dat veil. But da difference is, now I got me
some tools to stop it befo' it come down on me all da way.
Dem pills da doctor gave me heps me a lot, too. I feel like I
got real strength inside a' me for da first time. And I want
you to know again, I know I done tole you a thousand times,
but I'm so sorry, baby. I'm so sorry for who I was. Fo not
protecting you. I'm sorry, baby.”
I hold back tears while listening to her talk. “I forgive you,
Mom,” I say. “I forgive you.”
“Lawd,” she cries out to no one in particular. “Lawd, now
dat's a miracle in and of itself.”
I stand up and pull the unopened letter from Kenyon
College from my book bag. “Guess what this is?” I say while
holding the letter out to my mother.
“I already know dat's one a' dem college letters. Gone
'head and open it, girl!”
I smile at my mother, take a deep breath, and begin to
peel the letter open. My hands are shaking, and I have to
remind myself to keep breathing. I pull the folded paper
from the envelope and keep it clasped in my hands. I look
up at my mother, who's staring eagerly with all the hope in
the world, with dialysis tubes draped down over her bed and
an IV protruding from her arm. I feel her projecting the
entirety of her soul into calling good fortune on my behalf. I
wonder if anyone else in the universe wants good fortune
for you as much as your mother does.
I unfold the letter and begin reading, “Dear Ms. Echo
Brown, On behalf of the admissions committee of Kenyon
College, we are pleased to offer you a spot in our incoming
class. We hope—” I stop reading and start screaming.
My mother covers her mouth with both hands and starts
saying, “Lawd, Lawd, Lawd, I just knew. I just knew you was
gon' make it, gurl.”
Then she opens her arms and hugs me, unconcerned
about the IV and all the cords hanging from her bed or the
emergency call button protruding to the side. We squeal and
cry with such joy, we don't realize we have pressed the
button. We don't hear the emergency announcement ring
out across the floor, “Code Blue in room 222, Code Blue in
room 222.” Suddenly, several nurses come rushing into the
room while my mother and I continue to hug and cry. They
ask if everything is okay. My mother exclaims, “Ev'rythang is
jus' fine. 'Cause dis girl right here goin' ta college!”
College admission letters continue to roll in. They all say the
same thing: accepted. Ohio University, Wesleyan University,
even Harvard University: accepted. I am overwhelmed by
the response. I can't believe it. Deep down, I knew I would
get accepted to at least one college, but so far I have not
received one rejection letter. My heart is still set on
Dartmouth, the winter wonderland in the North, but I
haven't received a letter from them yet. Their brochure has
convinced me I belong on their campus with the other
smiling, well-placed minorities and colorful trees. I reread
their brochure over and over while spiraling my hopes and
prayers deep into the fabric of the universe. I especially love
that the brochure says, “At Dartmouth College, we truly
value inclusion. Our students come from diverse
backgrounds and communities around the world. Like the
Statue of Liberty, we also ascribe to the creed of ‘Give me
your tired, your poor,' and we will provide a first-class
education so that they might go out and become
lighthouses in an often challenging world.” I'm always tired,
and poor, so I feel like they are talking directly to me.
My Dartmouth College response letter arrives exactly two
and a half months before graduation. I get home one day
and see the letter lying in the middle of my bed, where Mrs.
Delaney leaves them each time. I sit next to it and stare at
it for several minutes. I try to prepare myself for
disappointment. For the shock of having not attained. I hold
the letter up to the light to see if I can make out any words
like “we regret to inform you” or “unfortunately.” Like all the
other college response letters, the paper is completely
folded over the text, preventing any hint of what might be
enclosed. I get up and shut the door in case I need to cry. I
don't want Mrs. Delaney to see me crying. If the answer is
no, I will tell her I haven't opened the letter yet. I rip the
envelope open and begin reading. “Dear Ms. Echo Brown”—I
love that they all call me Ms. It makes me feel like a fullblown adult—
“In my fifteen years as an admissions officer, I
don't think I have ever come across an application
like yours. The admiration with which all your
teachers speak about you (and several of them wrote
letters for you even though only two were required),
the depth of your perseverance despite truly
untenable circumstances, and the humility with
which you describe your own efforts ‘to just keep
going and to find a way to rise no matter what'
brought me to a complete halt as I read through your
application.
At Dartmouth, we pride ourselves on searching out
and admitting extraordinary students like yourself. I
personally believe that what you have to offer will be
of tremendous value to your peers and anyone who
comes in contact with you. As such, it is with great
pleasure that I would like to offer you a spot in
Dartmouth's incoming class as well as a scholarship
covering your full tuition for all four years. I know
that you are probably receiving similar letters from
every college you applied to, but I hope you will join
us here at the Big Green. It would truly be an honor
to have you.”
I put the letter down and sit stunned on the edge of my
bed. So this is what it feels like to have one of your biggest
dreams in life realized. It feels like winning the lottery a
thousand times. I can see it now. For the first time in my life,
I can see what lies beyond the mist. I can see Dartmouth
College, with her red and white brick buildings and rolling
green lawns, sitting there in all her New England glory,
waiting for me and the others to cross into her halls of
knowledge. And I am ready. Finally, I am ready.
On the night before my valedictory speech, my mother and I
are sitting at the kitchen table in our apartment. I'm waiting
for her to give me the gift she says she got for me before I
“grow all up and leave for dat fancy college up north.” My
mother sees me staring up at Jesus and says, “He changes
position based on what's happenin' in ya life. I done had dat
picture since I was a lil girl and always know when somethin'
comin' based on da look on his face. You can take him wit'
you if you want. I hear you in here talkin' to him
sometimes.” I smile and look back up at Jesus's new
position, which is him coyly smacking his teeth and pointing
his finger like in my dream. My mother and I will be leaving
to go to the Heart of the Black Man sermon at Mr. Delaney's
church soon, which I decided to attend after mentioning it to
Dre and Rone and seeing how much they wanted to go.
Davante and my father will also be joining. I already know
that, out of everyone, Davante will probably love it the
most.
“We been talkin' 'bout forgiveness a lot in my AA group,”
my mother says. “I was thankin' 'bout how hard it was for
me to forgive myself. And not just myself, but all of 'em dat
did me wrong, 'specially da mens. I been mad at men my
whole life. Shit, I hope dis sermon tonight ain't about
worshippin' and praisin' da mens, not afta all da havoc dey
done caused. If dat's da case, I will be showing myself to da
door.” My mother grabs a small black box out of one of the
kitchen cabinets and sets it on the table in front of me.
“Open it,” she says. I gently lift the plush velvet top and see
there is a silver necklace inside with a small blue crystal
heart attached. “It ain't much,” my mother says. “I got it
ova at Walmart, but I wanted you to have somethin' when
you go away. For when thangs happen dat you cain't
control. I'on' want you to live in a prison of rage and pain
like I done most of my life. When da hard times come up,
you can 'member me and squeeze it and ask fo hep letting
go of anythang dat's botherin' you. I know you cain't see it
right now, but it's gon' come a point when yo life ain't gon'
be so brand-new and you might find yo'self full of big ol'
mountains of pain, regret, anger. One day you might wake
up, look 'round yo life, and wonder where all da sunshine
went. I know you already done been through it, done had to
deal wit' one or two mountains already, but life has a way of
stackin' on mo and mo until you ain't got no choice but ta
let it all go and surrender to da beyond. In AA, da second
step says we came to believe dat only a Power greater dan
ourselves could restore us. Dat Power is da beyond, and I
hope ya surrender sooner ratha dan lata, is all I'm sayin.”
This happens to be the eighteenth lesson of wizard
training. Nothing is worse than a wizard who is trapped in a
pattern of emotional exhaustion or trauma. Your highest
potential can only be achieved if you manage to surrender
whatever baggage no longer serves you.
My mother and I head to Mr. Delaney's church. My father,
Dre, Rone, and Davante join us on the bus ride to the West
Side, where Mr. and Mrs. Delaney are waiting for us outside
the church. After the service, I'll spend the night at Mrs.
Delaney's house, where my cap and gown are, and practice
my valedictory speech one last time.
We all head inside and squeeze ourselves into an empty
pew in the middle of the church, watching as the space
slowly fills up. Dre, Rone, and I poke and prod one another
like we always do when we come together. “Stop touching
me,” Rone yells playfully even though no one has touched
him. I smack him on the side of his arm and tell him to shut
up. “I cain't wait fo dat buffet,” Dre says. I start to wonder if
the buffet, which will include fried chicken, greens, yams,
chitlins, and pound cake, is the real reason they were both
so eager to come. Davante leans over and says
sarcastically, “Heard you got in ta Dartmouth, Ms.
Valedictorian. Congratulations. Good luck surviving the
oppressor's institutions and halls of knowledge. Hope you
enjoy it.” I roll my eyes and respond, “Davante, for real? In
church? Don't worry about my life choices. Hope Howard
turns out to be everything you dreamed, and more. Hope
you don't end up accidentally enabling the patriarchy and
misogyny.”
The lights begin to dim as I playfully smack Davante on
the back of his head. The only lights that stay on are
highlighting the stage, which is empty except for a drum set
and two microphone stands. Suddenly, a woman starts
singing the words to what sounds like an old Negro spiritual
from somewhere offstage. I am immediately arrested by the
power of her voice. I can see the rest of the church is also
affected because everyone leans forward as soon as she
starts singing. A few lines into the song, Pastor Eweku
emerges onstage, while the singer, who I later learn is
named Sara, follows him. They walk over to the mic stands.
Sara clips in her mic while Pastor Eweku removes his. I am
struck by Pastor Eweku's skin. He is so dark. He would be
heavily made fun of if he went to my high school. They
would call him “tar baby” or “purple” or “black-ass nigga.” I
wonder if he was ever made fun of for that in Africa, if that's
where it started or if it started after they made us slaves.
Everyone is on the edge of their seats, waiting for him to
speak, but he stands there without saying anything, just
looking out into the darkness of the church. Then he quietly
speaks into the mic, “And so here we are. On a beautiful day
in a beautiful church. I want you to take a minute to think
about everything that has brought you to this moment in
your life. All the pain and sorrow. All the joy and triumphs. I
ask you: Who is more triumphant than black people? Who
walking the earth has been more triumphant than the
children of the sun? And so before we were here, we were
back there, in our original homes, the place that made us.
There we were
“stepping over crack needles, dodging bullets, watching
our loved ones succumb to devastating addictions, and
dealing with struggles no child should ever have to deal
with.” I pause and look to my left at the 2002 graduating
class of Henry E. Tarver. Everyone in the auditorium stares
silently at me, waiting for the next words to fall out of my
mouth. I look down at my notes and continue. “I want you to
know, I know where you come from. I'm standing there with
you. Like many of you, it all started in turmoil for me. At
only six years old, there I was in a burning apartment. An
actual burning apartment. As the smoke poured in and my
brothers cried in their cribs. And my mother—who is here
today, right there, and I've asked her permission to share all
this with you—she was passed out on the bathroom floor
from having ingested too much crack cocaine. As I stood
there in the middle of all that chaos, I knew that what
happened next—whether I made it out of that fire or not—
was out of my hands. I didn't know if I would emerge from
those flames or if I would perish before my time, like so
many of us. All I could control in that moment was my will to
not give up and my ability to
rise triumphantly up out of the good earth,” Pastor Eweku
says. “The black man, like the mighty African redwood tree
in the forests of Angola, like the powerful beanstalks of
Namibia, like the vast cotton in the fields of Alabama, and
like the stout sugarcane in Jamaica, the black man rose up
proudly, resolutely out of this earth. And everything in
existence supported his existence.  say that again,
'cause I don't think y'all heard me. I said, everything in
existence supported his existence.”
Someone in the church shouts, “You betta tell 'em
preacher. Tell 'em!”
“Sing to 'em, Sara,” Pastor Eweku commands.
And Sara begins again, hypnotizing us with her voice.
“We're searching for da glory,” she sings. Then suddenly the
full choir enters the stage and stands behind her and Pastor
Eweku. She sings “Sweet glory,” and they sing “Glory, glory,
glory” in the background while swaying.
“ say that a third time, 'cause I know some of y'all is
hard of hearing. And I know some of y'all just don't listen
good. Only hear what you want to hear. I said, everything in
existence supports the existence of the black man.” Pastor
Eweku says the word “black” with such emphasis and
power, he makes it sound regal and grand instead of
demeaning, like I am used to hearing. “Everything in
existence,” he continues, “except the white man.” I look
over and see that Davante has a wide grin as Pastor Eweku
says this. He starts nodding yes and clapping his hands
powerfully in agreement. I peek at Mrs. Delaney from the
corner of my eye to see if she is uncomfortable. Most of the
people in the church are black, except for two or three other
white women who are married to black men. Mrs. Delaney
looks moved also and squeezes my hand to indicate she
understands exactly
“the obstacles in front of you,” I say while looking out at
the audience, including the front row, where Rone, Dre, our
parents, Elena, Jessie, and Mr. and Mrs. Delaney are sitting.
Elena already graduated last week, and Jessie's wheelchair
is nestled on the side of the row next to my mother. I can
see that Mrs. Delaney and my mother are already crying
and I haven't even finished my speech yet. “And though
there will be tragedies and injustice along the way,” I
continue, “there will also be many gifts and lessons to be
learned. Lessons like discovering how unbreakable our
spirits are. As Pastor Eweku said in his sermon at church last
night, I want to ask you: Who is more unbreakable than
black people? Or anyone who comes from where we come
from? Only cockroaches and mosquitoes, I'd say. Just like
them, we'll be here till the end.” The audience laughs and
bursts into applause. “There are more lessons. Lessons like
unburying everything you have choked down to survive. No
one survives what we have without being excellent
gravediggers. And yet, in due time, all those skeletons must
be dug up and confronted—and that takes courage and
bravery. Or lessons like choosing your own purpose
regardless of what society says you can or can't do. And
lessons like forgiving yourself for everything: all the
mistakes you make, all the people you hurt, all the ways you
keep falling down.” I pause and then look at my mother,
who is sobbing quietly. “Let it go, surrender to the beyond,
and forgive yourself for all the unhealed pain
in our community, in our hearts, in our minds, in the very
fabric of who we are as a people,” Pastor Eweku says while
looking intently at the congregation. “We have truly been
beaten down as a result of colonialism and white
supremacy. And no one has been more beaten down, more
forgotten, more shamed than black women, even by our
own hands, brothers.” Pastor Eweku speaks softly now into
the mic, almost whispering. “Many of you came here today
to hear me preach about the heart of the black man. Well,
I'm here to tell you that the heart of the black man is the
black woman. And that heart has been broken by so many
sins. Our sins. The sins of rape. The sins of betrayal. The
sins of patriarchy, physical abuse, isolation, shaming. And
now a penance must be paid, brothers. For breaking our
own hearts. A penance must be paid, the score must be
settled, for when the glory comes, you gotta be right in your
soul, brothers. And then the glory will really be ours.”
I have never heard a black man speak like this about the
burden black women have carried. I am in awe and wonder
at how he figured it out. I want to rush the stage and thank
him for his words. I look around and see that many other
black women in the church are moved by what he says and
nod their heads in agreement. The men seem much more
hesitant to soak in this part of his sermon, even though they
were totally engaged when he was talking about the sins of
the white man.
I look down and see the small heart at the bottom of the
silver necklace around my neck flashing intensely. I wrap my
hand around it and suddenly feel some kind of filter drop
down over my eyes, which causes me to see everything
differently. A filter that causes me to see a bright white light
glowing in the heart centers of all the men. Inside the light,
the story of each man's path is archived, their ups and
downs, joys and pains. Some people glow brighter than
others. From Mr. Delaney's story, I learn how he never truly
felt loved or seen, so he hid behind a wall of stubborn
defensiveness. I guess this is the heart Mrs. Delaney was
talking about that night I eavesdropped on them. I scour
around the church, trying to read more words inside more
hearts as Pastor Eweku continues speaking. “Brethren, the
time to apologize is long overdue. The time to atone for our
own sins is now. It's always now brothers. Look within your
own hearts
and discover the truth about who you actually are. They
have called us low-income, underprivileged, and lowperforming. They have set their expectations for us so low,
they can't actually see what is possible for us, so they tell us
it's impossible, that our journeys are impossible. But I'm
here today to tell you that the journey forward always
seems impossible. Anything we set out to do in life looks
impossible at first, and yet we must keep going, listening
only to the small voice inside that tells us to press on, to
keep reaching and prove them all wrong.
“I want to tell you that they are wrong about us and what
we are capable of because they don't really know us. We are
not statistics or stereotypes or lost causes. We are wizards,
transforming every obstacle into hope, into new paths
forward. We are wizards of the light, and we do not yield. We
are wizards of the dawn, and we know the daybreak always
follows even the darkest of nights. We are wizards of the
horizon, always ready to sail forward, unstoppably forward.
So I want to encourage you to take these high school
diplomas and set sail. Don't wait for anything—permission,
perfection, or less problems—to sail toward the life that is
out there waiting for you.”
The entire auditorium erupts in applause. I look out and
am shocked to see the black veils over many people begin
to rise, again. I look down at my mother and Mrs. Delaney in
confusion, but they are both so enthralled with what's
happening, they don't notice me trying to get their
attention. I listen as
apologies ring out all around the church. It sounds like a
crescendo of voices all chattering at once. Dre, Rone, and
my father all say, “We sorry, Echo. We sorry,” which
dissolves me into a heaping puddle of sobs that defuses
some of the rage and anger I have carried for so long. I read
the stories written in their glowing hearts. I am reminded of
the essence of who they are beneath all the pain. “And to yo
momma, too,” my father says as he turns to my mother.
“I'm sorry, Aprah, for ev'rythang I done put you through. I'm
so sorry.”
“Glory, hallelujah,” Pastor Eweku cries into the mic while
Sara and the choir sing in the background. The church
erupts into chaos, with people crying and embracing all
around the room. I peek over at Mrs. Delaney and see that
she is wiping away the tears falling down her cheeks.
On the drive home, we are all mostly silent. No one has
words to follow the enormity of Pastor Eweku's sermon.
When we come to a stoplight, Mr. Delaney reaches back and
grabs my hand and squeezes. I know what the squeeze
means. I understand. In that moment, I release and all is
forgiven.
LESSON 19
Becoming Fearless in Your Pursuits
I am running down the sidewalk in a frenzy. I'm already
fifteen minutes late. This was my idea, and somehow I've
managed to still be late. I wave when I see Elena standing in
front of Jessie's apartment building. The Tarver Six, Elena,
Jessie, Dre, Rone, and I have decided to plant wisdom trees
and leave inspirational notes in the field for unsuspecting
strangers who might need hope. We decide that the perfect
way to celebrate our graduation is to leave something
behind about what we've learned so far. I've always had a
love affair with trees and what they represent: renewal and
possibility. “Oh my God, this is so sappy,” Elena groans. “But
I'm sure whoever finds these notes will be inspired.” I glance
over at Elena, smile, and think about the first time I met her.
She now has only one veil, the hijab, which strengthens
rather than depletes her.
Elena smiles back knowingly before giving me a hug and
promising to email me often about how she's doing at Yale,
which has top-notch drama and medicine programs. She
plans to take a few pre-med classes to make her parents
happy, but she will ultimately study theater and acting.
Elena and I grab Jessie and race to the open field, where the
rest of the group is waiting. Ms. Patty yells at us as we roll
by, “Lawd, y'all almost grown and still runnin' down da
street like y'all done escaped from Shaka Zulu's tribe. Slow
down! You'a get dere soon enough. Ain't nobody chasin'
y'all.” She cackles to herself before drinking from her purple
cup. For a moment, a wave of nostalgia passes over me and
I remember when my brothers and I used to sit up there
with her, watching everyone walk by. I marvel at how
quickly the time has flown, at how quickly I have arrived at
adulthood.
We stop at the penny candy store and see Tiffany inside.
When she sees us, she comes rushing out of the store and
says, “Jessie! What are we gonna do tomorrow?!” Jessie
looks up and smiles before saying, “The same thing we do
every day, Pinky—try to take over the world!” Tiffany cheers
before leaning down to give him a hug. I smile, grateful for
the unexpected reunion, for the homecoming of old friends.
I ask Tiffany when she starts community college and about
the development of her abilities. We all speak in code so
that others passing by don't know what we're talking about.
She tells me she's been trying to perform miracles to see if
she can use any of it to help Lil Man turn his life around.
Elena taps me on the shoulder, interrupting my train of
thought, and tells me we have to go because everyone's
waiting. “Remember, this was your idea,” she says with
warm sarcasm. We say goodbye to Tiffany and quickly run
into the store, buy a bunch of candy, and then head to the
field. When we get there, all our friends and my brothers
have already started digging. We join in to dig a circle of ten
holes. Once that's done, we pick up the small potted trees
that will one day become large ancient trees, and write
inspirational messages on the side of each burnt-orange
pot.
“Man, Echo, somebody gon' cut dese trees down,” Rone
says. “How many ghettos got a circle of trees right in da
middle of 'em? Dis some funny shit for real. Niggas gon' be
walkin' by and be like ‘Where da hell did dat circle a' trees
come from?'” Rone laughs to himself while continuing to
dig. “And I ain't got nothin' inspirational to say. So I ain't
writin' no message.”
Dre rolls his eyes and smacks his lips before saying,
“Man, jus' try ta be positive, nigga. Dis fo Echo, our sister.
She gon' be gone soon, and dis what she wanted for her
graduation gift, so jus' do it and chill out.” Dre's scolding
and reminder that I'll be leaving soon sink deep into Rone.
He suddenly becomes sullen while picking up a marker to
write his message. He holds the marker in his hand for
several minutes, trying to think of what to say.
Elena notices and says, “Think about it as your warrior
cry, your own unique message to the world that will live on
long after you're gone. An imprint of who you are in this
moment and what you've learned so far. You've come a long
way.”
Rone smiles chummily, as he always does when he gets
his way or when a pretty girl pays attention to him, and
says, “A'ight, Laina”—his nickname for Elena—“let me figure
it out.” The mood shifts from jovial anticipation to pensive
focus as everyone crafts their own personal message on the
sides of the pots, except Jessie, who instead draws a picture
on the side of his.
Once everyone finishes writing, we drop all the trees into
the holes and bury them carefully. We put a little sign in the
middle of the circle of trees that says “May the wide open
fields of the journey ahead fill you with wonder and may you
always find your way back home. Love, the Tarver Ten.”
We also write all our messages on the back of the sign
and in the shack to the right of the tree circle, which we
assume will stand forever in this place. I tell myself that I
will come visit this shack and field each time I come home
from Dartmouth. I will always come home, I think.
After we all finish writing, I shout, “Wait! We should read
our notes to each other.” Everyone unleashes a collective
outburst of exasperation, embarrassed at the thought of
having to share something so personal. “No, no, it will help
seal the energy! I'll start!” I shout gleefully. “Just trust me.
You're all gonna appreciate this moment later in life and
you'll have me to thank for it.” We stand in a circle in the
middle of the trees, Jessie in his wheelchair between Dre
and Rone. I walk to the middle of the circle and pick up the
sign. I find my message and begin reading:
Once you find the light inside, you can do anything,
even rise from the dead like Jesus. I know because I
did it. I'm writing this to remind you that anything
can be survived. I hope you find the courage to
cultivate the dark and grow the light.
“Dat was deep,” Rone says. “Dat's a good message, fo
sho.” Everyone nods in agreement as I pass it to Dre,
standing to my left. He holds the sign and begins:
Just like in da movie Titanic, find something to hold
on to in life so you don't sink. And if yo bitch-ass
friend won't let you up on dey raft when times get
tough, dey ain't really yo friend. Other than that,
remember dat it's all love. It's always only love,
even out here in dese streets. Don't let yo hood
make you so hard dat you foget dat.
Everyone laughs and Elena and I look at each other,
remembering the Miracle at Titanic and noticing all the
small changes it has awakened in my brothers.
Rone goes next:
All I can say is, dis shit is not a game, but ya gotta
keep goin', gotta wake up, gotta find a way, and
gotta lean on da people around you. Pray you get a
sister like mine in da next life. I'on' know how she
does it, but I swear she be makin' me see things
differently. Stay up and stay humble, my niggas.
I reach over and pat Rone on the shoulder until he smiles
chummily again. “Was dat good enough, sis?” he asks.
“That was perfect,” I say. “Perfect.”
Davante clears his throat and begins reading:
The heart of any man is the woman. It took me a
long time to understand that because I was so
focused on myself. Do right by the women around
you and your life will flourish. A woman is the only
seed on earth that multiplies everything she
touches. Also, don't forget to dismantle oppressive
structures of white supremacy before you leave this
world. That will always be your responsibility.
Davante looks over at me while holding the sign and says,
“I'm sorry if I was judgmental or put too much pressure on
you. You one of my best friends and I'm always here for you.
I love you, girl.” I grin before breaking the circle and giving
Davante a hug. “I'm always here for you, young fella,” I say
playfully before returning to my spot.
Jin walks into the middle of the circle, channeling an
imaginary runway:
When life invites you to a battle to test whether you
are ready, whether you are brave enough, there is
only one thing you can do: Dress to the nines, stand
up, pull your shoulders back, sashay down that
runway, and lip-sync for your life, as fairy
godmother RuPaul would say. Demand they hear
and see you. Be unforgettable.
Alexis, who's going to Northwestern University, reads hers
next:
Compete only with yourself and never compare your
journey to someone else's, because it can make you
bitter. Like Dr. Maya Angelou says, “You must not be
bitter. Bitterness is like a cancer and it eats upon
the host.” Choose not to be a host to any negativity
or pettiness.
Rodman and Karen decline to read their messages, saying
they only want whoever finds them to read them. So Elena
grabs the sign and starts reading:
My name is Elena Farahmand, first of her name,
badass quantum wizard, hijabi Lady Neo of the
Cleveland Matrix, daughter of immigrants from Iran,
and lover of women and Kool-Aid (thanks to my best
friend). I killed the imposter, and so can you.
Remember where you came from, honor your roots,
but choose to walk your own path no matter the
consequences.
Everyone laughs and claps at Elena's bold words. Jessie
shouts several times, “Lady Neo!” I tell her, “Thank you …
for choosing the red pill.” Tears well up in her eyes, and she
nods knowingly, before grabbing my hand again.
After a few moments of silence, we put the sign back in
the middle of the trees and stand awkwardly for a while, not
wanting to look at one another. Not wanting to accept that
we, too, are all floating away in different directions. “Stay in
touch,” we say one by one before scattering into the
horizon.
I watch the horizon line for the entire drive to Dartmouth,
waiting for its red and white brick buildings to rise like
something out of a movie and come rolling toward us. The
drive takes an agonizing twelve hours over two days, and
when we finally arrive, I am asleep, snoring in the back of
the car, having entirely missed the prodigious rising of
Dartmouth on the skyline. I wipe the sleep from my eyes as
Mrs. Delaney claps gleefully and yells, “We're here!”
My mother says, “Praise all that is holy 'cause I gots to
use da bathroom.” Only my mother has joined us for the
drive, since there wasn't enough room in the car for my
father or brothers.
We find my dorm and Mrs. Delaney, Mr. Delaney, and my
mother help me unpack and set up my room. I will be
sharing a room with three white girls from different places
around the United States. They are all Christians and talk
about how they can't wait to go to Bible study together.
They ask me what denomination I am when they notice the
picture of white Jesus, who I have brought with me, hanging
over my desk. I see Mrs. Delaney smiling out of the corner
of my eye as I tell them I'm not Christian, but “I got a thang
for Jesus.”
They laugh uncomfortably, uncertain about what exactly I
mean before one of them breaks the tension and says,
“Cool, well, really nice to meet you.”
I am stunned by how rich and white the people are at
Dartmouth. They drive Lamborghinis and wear funny brown
shoes that look like canoes. I wonder if there has always
been this much money in the world, and why so little of it
managed to make it to me and my brothers. I am fascinated
and enraged all at once. Though I feel deeply out of place,
like when I first walked into Mrs. Delaney's house, I still feel
prepared somehow. I am ready for what is to come.
Mrs. Delaney, Mr. Delaney, and my mother all stay glued
to my side while helping me settle in. They ask how I'm
feeling and if I need anything. They diligently circle my
room, making sure everything is in order. Mr. Delaney hangs
a shelf on the wall above my bed. My mother takes out
newly purchased sheets and makes my bed. Mrs. Delaney
unpacks my school supplies and places them carefully on
my desk. She puts the pencils in the cup holder and the
notebooks in the drawer. Then she stops to look at the desk
and ponder if anything else needs to be done. Ah, yes, she
decides before moving the mouse pad from the left of the
computer to the right. Watching all three of them, I come to
internalize what love is. I come to understand that at the
same moment the universe set circumstances in motion to
allow for my life, it also set circumstances in motion to allow
for this moment. I wonder whose lives I'm being prepared to
impact down the road. I think again about all those little
girls. I'm coming, I say quietly to myself.
On the final night, after they have organized all my stuff
and inspected every area of campus, Mrs. Delaney and Mr.
Delaney take my mother and me out to dinner at one of the
highfalutin seafood restaurants near campus. I look around
and see other students, mostly white, out to dinner with
their parents. All the parents have the same look in their
eyes as Mrs. Delaney, Mr. Delaney, and my mother. A kind
of sorrow-infused proudness. I scan the menu and once
again see several items I've never heard of. Mrs. Delaney
tells me to get whatever I want, even if it's a cheeseburger
and fries. She winks at me before glancing back down at her
menu. I decide I'm going to try something new. I glance over
at my mother and can tell by her look of terrified confusion
that I'll be ordering a well-done cheeseburger for her. The
waiter comes and takes our orders, then rushes off to the
kitchen.
I notice Mr. Delaney looking wistfully across the room. I
ask him what he is thinking about. He says, “Well, I was just
thinking about my first night at college. How petrified I was.
Those were different times, of course. I was at a mostly
white school in the South, so I kept waiting for one of those
white boys to say something to me. Call me a nigger or
something. Mine was the first class to admit black students.
And I remember my mother and father took me out to
dinner that last night. My father must have seen the fear in
my eyes 'cause he said, ‘Son, I know I have been hard on
you at times, but I want you to know that no matter how
hard it gets, you can always come home. If the battlefield
grows too weary, come home to gather your strength before
you get back out there.” Mr. Delaney pauses and then
continues, “That's what I want to say to you right now, Echo.
I know I didn't do everything perfectly. I know I caused you
pain out of my own ignorance, but I want you to hear me
clearly: You can always come home. No matter what. No
matter where you find yourself in this big, bad world.” Mr.
Delaney hangs his head. Mrs. Delaney places a hand on his
back, then he looks up and musters a smile to try and mask
the vulnerability of the moment. I understand the courage it
has taken for him to speak these words, and I am bursting
with gratitude at having received them. I stand up,
practically lunging across the table, to give him a great big
hug, the biggest one I've ever given.
We feast and laugh throughout the night. After we take
our last bites of dessert and our last sips of water, we stand
up and look at each other, still lingering around the table in
a circle, like the day my mother and I visited Rone at the
juvenile detention center. We each nod silently before
walking to Mr. Delaney's car behind the restaurant. None of
us can look at one another again for fear that we might all
burst out into tears simultaneously and drown the whole
campus. We all understand the journey that has been
undertaken. I give each of them a hug: Mrs. Delaney, Mr.
Delaney, and finally my mother. I hold on to my mother the
longest. Sensing that we need a last moment together, Mr.
and Mrs. Delaney give us space.
I stand there in the middle of the sidewalk, holding my
mother's hands. “Well, you did it, gurl,” she says. “You did it
all by yo'self, too, 'cause I wasn't hardly dere fo ya.” My
mother looks down in shame.
“You were there when it counted, Mom, and I'm grateful
for that.”
My mother smiles and says, “Awright den. Well, you can
call me anytime. Day or night. Morning or evening. You call
me if anythang comes up. I'm heah now. You undastand me?
I'm heah now.”
We stand for a few more seconds, fighting tears that
threaten to turn into full-blown wails, fully looking at each
other for the first time in our lives. We see the entirety of
each other's beings. When it's finally time to say goodbye,
when the moment releases and propels us forward, we nod
at each other, and then she turns toward the car. I stand
there watching my mother's back, her being, move farther
and farther away until it disappears into the belly of the car.
I stare as the car dissolves into the horizon, back to the
place that made me.
In the morning, when the sun starts rising, I walk toward
the middle of campus and stand there trying to sense
something about my new life. Trying to understand the way
of things. I watch the last of the mist roll away over the New
Hampshire mountains, welcoming the rays of a new dawn. I
ask the particles around me if there are any messages for
me. If there is something I need to know right now for the
path ahead.
Only one message appears, the final lesson of wizard
training: You are unlimited. Be fearless in your pursuits. I
nod knowingly and walk back to my dorm room, where three
Christian girls and white Jesus are waiting for me.