That sound; that burbling, bubbling sound. That ringtone was
possibly the most annoying sound in the whole world. But it was my
lifeline to home.
I hit the big green button. Akilah's face popped up on my screen.
She whispered, “Hey, you. What's going on?” Akilah was in church
clothes, practically shining in a prim little cardigan over a modest
dress. I could just see her collar and buttons. She was rushing out of
church as we spoke. Her mom would eat that up. Yet another reason
for her mother to hate the reviled best friend: I made Akilah leave
while the service was going on.
All these thoughts rushed through me between spasms of terror.
Those clutching, needle-sharp pains in my stomach had started, and
before I dissolved into a puddle of tears and snat I'd had the good
sense to send Akilah a Skype message: Not doing so great. Be nice
to talk.
What can I say? I have a rare gift for understatement.
Lucky for me, she had her phone on—a no-no, as far as her mom
was concerned. “Phones off in church” is a strict rule, as any
churchgoer knows. Lucky for me, Akilah realized I was having a
hard time and had defied the rule to be there when she knew I
needed her. Lucky for me, she was a great friend.
She was my best friend—and she was my only friend.
“God,” I groaned. “Ki-ki, I'm dying.”
“No, girl, you're not dying,” she responded. She was whispering
and walking at the same time; and behind her the sunlight was
blinding. She stopped and stood in the dappled shade of a mango
tree, its dark green leaves rustling noisily in the breeze. “What's the
matter?”
“Nothing,” I said. “Everything.”
“That's not an answer,” she scolded me. “What is causing you to
feel like this right now?” She was familiar with my panic attacks: I'd
get sweaty, my heart would race, I'd feel breathless and terrified and
end up sobbing for hours. It wasn't a good look. What amazed me
was that she was always ready to give me a shoulder to cry on.
Before I'd gotten to Canada, hers was the only one I had.
“I am walking to the bus stop, trying to get home…,” I started to
explain before trailing off.
“And?” She waited for me to answer. It took a while.
I took another step on the long white highway.
It was about seventeen degrees Celsius, warm for Canadians but
cold for me; I haven't gotten used to the weather yet; though we use
the same temperature scale as Canada, they use the lower parts
much more than we did. For them seventeen degrees is a nice day,
and they put on shorts and tank tops and walk around like I would
at the beach or in the park, but for me, it's just another wrap-uptight day, wear-my-coat day, feel-too-cold day. Home was never this
cold, even on the chilliest nights, even up in the high hills of
Trinidad's Northern Range where mist covers the road in the early
morning.
Almost as though in sympathy with the windy day in Trinidad,
the wind picked up. I felt it blowing through my short black hair,
trying to ruffle it and failing. Canadian wind, oh you don't know
anything about hair like mine. You haven't seen enough of it in this
quiet backwoods on the prairie. You think my hair is gonna just
submit to you, flip and dance in you, fly and move in you? Not my
hair. It's worked too hard for too long to just give in to you. It's
tough hair, wiry hair, strong hair, hair that won't be cowed by some
damn prairie wind. No sirree, not this hair.
“Sweetie?” Akilah asked sharply.
When I'm having a panic attack I can find it hard to carry on a
conversation. My thoughts become confused and all the words
become tangled in my mind, a ball of stifled self-expression. So I
tried to focus on the road I was walking on.
A long concrete road, it was four lanes wide and full of zooming,
beeping, clanking, whooshing cars, buses, and trucks. Trucks
especially. They weren't allowed to drive on the cross streets, only
roads that ran the length of this part of Edmonton.
The trucks were big, lumbering, trundling things that passed too
close to me as I walked. The pavement and road were the same
color, the same texture. Home home, roads were black, the way
roads should be. Roads back home were made of asphalt mined
from Trinidad's Pitch Lake. Not here. Edmonton's bone-white, cold
concrete highway scared me in some primal way. This wasn't a road
into anything good; it couldn't be. And I'd never seen so many
trucks. They were like huge devils with horns blaring and fangs in
their grilles, evil grins, bad intentions, bearing down on me from
behind, leering at me as they powered past, warning me they'd be
back for me—not now but at some unspecified, very real date in the
future. The wind they raised was bitter and hot, not like the wind
that normally blew cold, odorless, and sterile. The wind blown from
the sides of the trucks was dusty and tasted like ashes in my mouth.
Houses ran alongside the road. Stretching over the four lanes
every now and then was a big blue road sign that told me where I
was. I also kept track by counting the street signs at each corner.
Twenty-First Street. Twentieth Street. Nineteenth Street. The streets
seemed inordinately far apart. I had four more blocks to walk before
I turned in to the bus station.
“What's going on?” Akilah was now insistent. All she'd heard
was the jagged sound of my breath as I freaked out, abrupt
inhalations and shaky exhalations that would stop me from
screaming. I must have looked awful.
“I'm in the middle of nowhere.”
“Why are you walking in the middle of nowhere?”
“I should take a bus from the city to the station, then from the
station to home,” I confessed. “But I never remember quickly
enough which bus to take to get to the station. I feel like an idiot
standing there staring at the transit map. I keep some schedules in
my pocket, but…”
It sounds stupid, but I was always, always easily flustered when
I had choices to make, even simple, everyday ones. Should I have
rice or pasta? Lettuce or cabbage? The Fourteen or the Eighteen?
My choice could kill me. At least, that was what it felt like. And
please don't get me started on multiple-choice tests. Exams were
always hell. I never knew how to decide things.
So instead of trying to figure out which bus to take when my
brain was stuck in a goo of confusion, I walked to the little bus
station, with its heavy, warm air panting out of buses that crouched
in a waiting lane, engines still running. Meanwhile, the drivers used
the bathroom or made phone calls to their families, or just chilled
with other workers in the small office behind the bulletproof glass
of the customer service counter.
The bus schedules in my pocket, clutched too tight too many
times, had become grimy and old through the weeks I'd used them.
No matter how many times I took the bus, I always forgot which
one I needed. I sat and took really deep breaths, I could remember
that mornings my bus was the Fourteen, going north into the city;
and evenings my bus was the Eighteen, going south into the
suburbs. But when I was in the grip of a panic attack there was no
way I could remember that, as ridiculous as it might sound. I had to
pull out both schedules every time I walked to catch a bus. I had to
smooth out the wrinkles, squint down at them and look to see
which bus went where. And as soon as I put them back into my
pocket I'd forget again. Which bus goes where? What time is it
running? Am I in the right place?
Having a panic disorder really sucks.
“You're not an idiot,” Akilah consoled me. “In fact, you're one of
the smartest people I know. Quick…what's the capital of Moldavia?”
“Moldavia isn't a country anymore. You're thinking of Moldova.
And the capital is Chişinău.”
“Kitchen-what?” The strange pronunciation slayed her, her
laughter momentarily almost distracting me from the blood
pounding in my ears, the fear narrowing my vision.
“Chişinău. Google it,” I growled, ashamed that I could instantly
recall dotish trivia like that but couldn't figure out which bus to hop
on.
Akilah was on a mission, though. She saw right through my
embarrassment and shook her head in exaggerated mock
disapproval. “You see? Which fourteen-year-old Trini girl not only
knows that Moldova exists, but knows the name of its capital city
and how to pronounce it? You're a genius!”
“Meh,” I said dismissively. “Such a genius I can't remember how
to get home. Every. Single. Day.”
She laughed, but it was a sympathetic chuckle, not a jeer.
Trinidadians made jokes about everything. We laughed at life. It
was one of the things that made Trinis special, I thought. But my
sense of humor wasn't helping at that moment.
“Could you just talk to me?” I begged. “Tell me what's going on
with school and church and everything. How did you do in end-ofterm tests?”
“Oooh…I got a B in chemistry,” she began in disgust. “Mr. Look
Loy said my project was disappointing. Can you imagine? I never
got a B in my life….”
As Akilah started talking to distract me, I noticed the breeze
even more. This afternoon wind seemed determined to get to me, to
find something it could interfere with. It crept under my jeans and
my high collar, trying to penetrate the layers of fabric to reach my
skin. I could feel it swirling below my clothes. But I was prepared,
too wily for the wind. I had on long underwear.
Summer in Edmonton is not hot, but it's not cold. Unless, that
is, you're used to living in a furnace. I was. I was from the
Caribbean, where an average day might easily be twice as hot as an
average Edmonton summer day. What was sixteen degrees when
you were really built for thirty-two, when your blood was as warm
as the Gulf of Paria when the sun was shining down on the chalky
finger of San Fernando Hill? Here, I was always cold, bundling
myself up in layers and obscenely more layers, wearing all the
clothes in my wardrobe at once.
Like a real Trini, Aunty Jillian laughed at me all the time about
that. She and her partner, Aunty Julie, couldn't understand why I
was always kitted out like a bag lady in sweater, shirt, long
underwear, jeans, and sneakers after my arrival in Edmonton. On
really bad days, like today, I wore my coat, a long velveteen number
I bought at a thrift store because I wasn't going to be in this city
much longer and I was sure nobody wanted to spend real money on
my “penance” clothes. Already Jillian and Julie had paid for my trip
to Canada, had welcomed me into their home, were taking care of
me. I felt I owed them too much to accept an expensive, brand-new
fall coat when it wasn't yet fall. I'd have to go back to Trinidad soon
anyway.
My thrifted velveteen coat was a rich electric blue, the color of
the sky at home when it was just about sunset—not on the side with
the lightshow of the sun going down in an orange blaze of glory but
the other one, the side where night is creeping up and day is already
a memory. The sky could be such an elegant, intense, impenetrable,
and unutterably lovely blue. When I saw the coat on the hanger, it
seemed it was waiting for me. Everybody laughed at my purchase,
especially Jillian, who called it my Princess Di coat. In truth it was
too formal, and pretty old-fashioned, but I didn't care. It fit and I
loved the color and the smooth, short nap of the velveteen. The
lining was genuine silk, which was heavenly against my hands.
Plus, when you're wearing a big, thick coat it feels like it's easy
to disappear.
“English and Lit were super easy, like I told you. Oh, and I can't
remember exactly what I wrote for the first Literature essay, the one
on Julius Caesar—something about portents, I think—but Miss
Ramsubir said she wants to publish it in the School Tie next—”
“What's the School Tie?” I asked. She'd never mentioned it
before.
“The school magazine. She wants me to write for it….”
I was a bit closer to the bus station and Akilah's voice had
calmed me down a little. I could pay attention to small things again,
like the flowers in front of people's houses, or the faint warmth of
the sunshine on my face.
“Maths wasn't terrible. I got two questions wrong in the long
paper. I hate graphs.” Akilah groaned theatrically.
I kept walking, making a fist with my free hand and sticking it
into my coat's silk-lined pocket. My short nails pressed pink
crescents into my palm, the pain keeping me from screaming out
when the scary trucks passed with their horns blaring
boooohhhhhppp! Devil trucks.
“Nobody ever stops me or says hello or anything,” I suddenly
said to Akilah. “I literally walk around here and nobody says a word.
Canadians are so into their own space that they try not to interfere
with anybody else's.”
Akilah, used to my disjointed thoughts during my panic attacks,
picked up the ball and ran with it. “Not like the macos we have here
in Trinidad,” she teased. “Always minding your business. Aunty
Cynthia would have got about three phone calls by now from the
neighborhood macos if you were home and going down the
highway.”
It was true, sort of. At home—home home, not here—people
stopped and talked to perfect strangers. Yes, the macos minded your
business like it was their human right to do so. But at least you
smiled at them and saw in their faces some emotion. Here, a strange
and hostile silence fell when the occasional person came near me.
Not that I saw too many people on this terrifying jaunt.
“Nobody even walks here either,” I told her, and moaned. “I'm a
freak. Aunty Jillian and her girlfriend would have picked me up
from the city if I had asked them to, but that would have meant
them driving out of their way.” I bit my lip. “I don't want to be too
much trouble.”
“Oh, sweetie,” Akilah sighed. The light behind her dimmed as
the sun ducked behind a cloud. “You know they wouldn't mind.”
“Well, they don't work in the city!” I argued. “They would have
to leave the house, get me, and turn around. I don't want to be a
nuisance.”
I was being dishonest. Yes, they did work from home. They had
a computer-based business that they ran from the cool, dry
basement of their little house in the suburbs, my temporary home
for the past several weeks. But I knew they would have been happy
to pick me up from the city. I told myself maybe things would
change once I got more used to being in Edmonton, that maybe I
wouldn't feel like such a burden, crashing in and ruining their
perfect lives while I served out my penance here. Maybe.
It was nearly summer. School was out. Trying to make myself
invisible in the new city where I lived, but knowing I couldn't just
stay in bed as much as I wished I could, I spent my days at the
library, reading. I liked books, probably because I spent so much
time alone with them when I was a child. Books don't judge you.
Books don't think you're awkward or wrong, and they don't give you
that cut eye you get from your mother when you should be washing
dishes but you're reading instead. Libraries made me feel at home.
When I wasn't reading, sometimes I went to the gym. Sometimes I
went swimming at the community pool. Sometimes I went to a
museum; there were a bunch of them in Edmonton, unlike
Trinidad, which had only a few in the whole country. This place was
so strange, so new. Sometimes, when I could stand to do it, I just
walked around and listened to the city breathe.
This routine worked well with the reason I was here in the first
place. I was officially in Edmonton on holiday, recovering from my
recent troubles. In reality, my mom had shunted me off here. I was
half a world away from home to hide until the end of the school
term, which I had started off in a hospital bed.
It was now June and I was tired of my penance.
Why did I call it penance? Because my mother was so ashamed
of my illness, when she sent me away to recover it felt like she was
punishing me. So: penance.
Penance was hard. I missed the sunshine, I missed my room, I
missed my house, I missed walking on High Street, San Fernando. I
missed Akilah. I did not miss school. And I didn't miss my mother
as much as I should. Every time I thought of her I remembered the
sour and hurt expression on her face when I was in hospital. She
didn't believe that my illness was real. She felt it was a personal
indictment of her and my upbringing. It was clinical depression. I
tried to tell her, the doctor tried to tell her, Aunt Jillian tried to tell
her. Depression is an illness. It had nothing to do with her. It was
inside me, like some kind of code in my basic programming. My
operating software told my body and my mind that I was unhappy.
It didn't matter if she was a good mother or not.
I was still walking, alone because of my penance. Akilah was
still on Skype, too, her quiet, sure voice talking to me, telling me,
“Don't worry, chick. You will get there, you will not get lost, you will
find the bus station, you will catch a bus, you will get home.” She
broke off, mumbling, “And Mummy will kill me if I don't go back
inside.”
Sure enough, I heard sharp high heels clicking on the other side
of the call. “Akilah! Get off that phone! What have I said about
leaving church to talk to your friends?” Aunty Patsy's stern voice
brooked no discussion.
“Got to go!” Akilah whispered, swiftly sending me a kiss and a
wink before ending the call.
I clutched my phone in a sweaty hand. Akilah was gone, but her
voice had helped; I could breathe again. The road wasn't so
terrifying anymore.
The summer flowers outside each house on this road were
brighter than I would have imagined when I was living in the
Caribbean. I had always thought of Canada—or any temperate place,
actually—as dull and somehow less colorful than home. I had been
surprised to see that the blossoms could be as red, as yellow, and as
blue as the flowers in my own yard in Trinidad. Not caring to learn
the names of the flora I wouldn't be around much longer, I called
these Canadian blooms by their sizes, shapes, and colors: the big
pink one, the small blue one, the orange one with the dizzy, swirling
petals. The wind had more success with them than with my wiry,
tight curls. Those flowers danced in it, their little heads nodding and
twisting in the strong breeze.
All the houses I passed were similar, though. Once, before I got
the courage to take the bus at all, I tried walking straight home from
the city. Twenty-four blocks didn't seem like much—and it only took
about fifteen minutes by car to get from the heart of town to my
aunt's house, so I figured I would be fine. Uh-uh. It was long. In
fact, in my mind I called it the Day of the Longest Walk. I walked for
three hours and just kept counting corners and counting corners
until in frustration I stopped a little kid and asked where Second
Street was.
Turned out I was standing on it, right by Aunty Jillian's house.
The houses all looked exactly the same to me, and I simply hadn't
recognized hers. But there it was: a small, brownish-white cottage
surrounded by a perfect, jewel-green lawn and tubs of summer
blooms, separated from its neighbors by hedges and chain-link
fencing. On one side of the house was a black-doored garage with a
car inside; another car was parked outside in the driveway. Aunt
Jillian had a couple of garden gnomes cavorting in a Japaneselooking grotto she had made of rocks and stones, some dark-green
perennial shrub, and pieces of driftwood she had collected on the
grayish sand of Vessigny Beach, where she used to go with my mom
and their parents when they were small. It was not a shrine, but she
tended this grotto carefully, raking it and keeping it looking really
nice, washing down the garden gnomes until they shone, even
though she constantly made fun of them. I imagined they had secret
lives like the singing gnomes in a movie I liked when I was a kid.
On the Day of the Longest Walk, I had been confused, too,
because of perspective. I'd never seen Jillian and Julie's house from
that angle. I had always driven up into the garage in the passenger
seat of their car, and entered the house through the side door in the
garage. Nobody used the front door at all, I noticed. Seemed it was
only there for decoration. People entered from the deck via the
kitchen. From the garage, a side door led to the hallway between the
formal living room and the rest of the house. The front door was
seldom touched, except by Julie during her Saturday-morning
cleaning rampages, when every bit of brass and glass in the house
was polished till it gleamed like new. The front door was formal and
austere, like the living room into which it opened, and perhaps
nobody wanted that feeling of formality to be sullied with ordinary
dirt and finger smudges.
Formalities or not, I wished I were there already, and yet I was
still walking. I turned a corner, counting streets laterally this time. I
knew the street names by heart now, and ran through them in my
head as if I were afraid someday I'd be walking by and someone
would have secretly changed them in the night just to confuse me.
In my mind I called their names as I passed them: Evergreen, Fir,
Pine, Aspen—names of trees I didn't know from home at all, trees I
wouldn't recognize by sight. Then the bus station came into view.
Two cops idly watched me approach. They were wearing
summer uniforms of short sleeves and short pants, and looked with
obvious amusement at my over-padded appearance. I smiled
uncomfortably at them and clenched my fists tighter in the pockets
of my coat. It was a strange contradiction: I hated how nobody
talked to me, but at the same time I didn't really want anybody to
talk to me, either. Maybe I was afraid of what I'd say in return. Or
maybe I was afraid I'd just turn into a puddle of shame and terror
right at their feet. Who knew?
Plus, they were cops. Canada is neighbors with America, and I
briefly thought of the black people who'd been shot by law
enforcement for doing absolutely nothing but what I was doing—
walking. Even that wasn't the same as in Trinidad, where police in
jeeps pulled up on young black kids in the street to hassle them,
rough them up, scare them, as a matter of course. But they didn't
shoot them. I was wary, to say the least.
The taller of the two, a very young blond guy with thick legs,
grinned back at my nervous smile. As soon as I was within earshot
he asked, “Are you sure you're warm enough?” His question caught
me off guard.
“Yes, thanks,” I said, bowing my head and trying to avoid him, in
case this seeming friendliness was some kind of trick.
It didn't work. Hearing my Caribbean accent, he immediately
did what many white Canadians I'd met had done: he asked, “Where
are you from?”
“Trinidad,” I told him, before scuttling into the sheltered
booth of the commuter queue, yearning to get my chilled bones out
of the wind and escape from this disturbingly interested policeman.
I quickly warmed up, keeping my eye on the cops on the corner.
My heart was still racing, but my palms weren't as sweaty, and my
breathing was calming down. I looked at my little watch, which my
mother had given me three years ago when I sat for my secondary
school entrance exam. A useful present, as you couldn't take the
exam with a cell phone as your timer. My mother didn't give me
many gifts just because. They were always practical, sensible: a new
church dress, new sneakers for school, a longtime fountain pen.
This watch had a plain steel band and plain white face, the picture of
utilitarianism. It made me think of her. It made me a little sad.
The hands on the watch said I had another ten minutes until the
next bus would arrive. The bus service on this line ran every twenty
minutes, waiting for no one a minute past the schedule. A shocking
realization for me at first—to read the schedule and find that the
buses actually would be there at nine-twenty if they said they would
be; at home, no such thing had ever happened in the government
bus service. As far as I had known, buses arrived and departed when
their drivers felt like it, end of story. Schedules, if they existed, were
mere suggestions, rather than rules. Like the majority of people, I
took a kind of minibus we called a maxi-taxi, and those ran
whenever they liked, any time of day or night.
But here, the bus drivers were always on-time, serious
professionals, saying goodmorningma'am or goodeveningsir or
whatever to every single person who came in. Miraculously, they
asked nobody how their grandson was doing in school, or how their
diabetes—in Trinidad we call it sugar—was treating them, or how
their macomere was keeping. It didn't matter that I saw the same
driver more often than not; their tone didn't change when they said
goodmorningmiss every single morning and goodafternoonmiss
every single evening.
Standing in the windbreak, I could see the boyish-looking cop
staring at me still, and even though I turned away to look in the
other direction, I had a feeling he would soon amble my way to
make small talk. So said, so done, and he came over, swinging his
arms and rhythmically catching his fists together in front as he did.
I could feel my heart miss a beat with nervous fear. The gray and
yellow of his uniform was different from what I expected of a
policeman's; the jaunty yellow stripe was, I felt, unnecessarily
frivolous, like a party hat on a pig. In my country the police are not
friendly. They do not stop to chat or old talk with anybody,
especially teenage girls. My anxiety rocketed with his every step.
“So, what brings you to Edmonton? Are you visiting or do you
live here?”
Was he going to arrest me for truancy? Was he going to search
me for drugs? Would he try to deport me as an illegal alien, even
though I had my tourist visa? I started to sweat again, the silk lining
of my coat sticking to my sweaty palms. I was terrified he was going
to ask to see my passport. Oh, the crap that ran through my head.
Man, I thought again, having a panic disorder sucks.
“Visiting,” I squeaked. “Just seeing my aunts.”
“Oh? A holiday before you start college, huh?”
“College?” I snapped my head around to look him in the eye
despite my agitation and blurted, “I'm only fourteen!”
I could see him take a mental step back as his eyes opened wide
and his cheeks grew bright pink. “Uh, I need to check in with my
partner. You get home safely, eh?” He quickly ambled back to the
other cop. I didn't know what had happened, or why. I already found
humans a mysterious species and I was an expert at saying the
wrong thing in any situation. Ordinarily the idea that I'd said the
wrong thing to a policeman, of all people, would leave me rigid with
panic. But suddenly, I was too exhausted from the panic attack I was
already having to notice anything but relief that he was gone. I
stood alone at the familiar bus stop, my pounding heart slowing its
race.
One of the purring buses in the small bullpen of the station
suddenly emitted a little burst of wind, a sharp mechanical fart, and
rumbled awake. It drove up and I anxiously checked my schedule
once more. I was at the right queue. When the bus reached me the
door opened with a gasp. The number was written plain as day on
the front, and I recognized the driver. Still, I got on and asked him,
“Is this the Eighteen?”
“Yup, goodafternoonmiss,” he said, nodding his familiar head
with an impersonal smile. I paid the fare, lurched to a seat in the
middle of the bus, and sat down gratefully on the cold, slippery
vinyl. Another mechanical breaking of wind and we were off.
I counted the streets again, and then I was home. Not home
home, I thought with a little wave of longing. Was this what tabanca
was like? I'd never been in love before, much less lovesick. But I
pushed the thought down. I'd worry about it later. Home at Jillian
and Julie's house was good enough for now. I reached up, pulled the
stop cord, and got out when the bus rolled to a halt. The stop was a
half-block from the house, but it was close enough that I hardly had
to think about where I was anymore. My anxieties drove off with
the bus, for now. I felt immediate relief. My brain switched back on
again. And finally, the penny dropped: the boyish cop had been
flirting with me before he heard my age.
journal session 1
Dr. Khan made me start this journal after I met with him for the
first time. He said, “Write about who you are. Be honest. What's
behind that pretty face?”
Honestly? I've never thought of myself as pretty. As a kid I was
not the one you'd look at and say, “Oh, what a little angel!” or
anything like that. My little face in baby pictures was too serious,
and I grew up to be the kind of child adults admire because I am
smart and well-read, rather than because of how I look. I am tall
and skinny, with dark brown skin and big black eyes that Akilah
says make me look older than I am. Though I am shy, I have a good
vocabulary, and when I used big words, like I normally did, adults
acted like it was a trick I could do, as if I were some kind of monkey
dancing on a chain or a dog doing flips on command.
Adults always said to each other: She's so articulate! They would
say it right over my head, as if I wasn't even in the room. And really,
sometimes I wasn't. It came to be that I didn't really care what they
said anymore. I was doing my thing, talking or writing or reading or
whatever, and they would be admiring me like I was a fish in a bowl.
And I didn't care, I just swam around in my dirty water and sucked
up the stale food and my own pee—metaphorically speaking, of
course—and everything was cool. Only, everything wasn't cool.
I was really, really unhappy, like I had this big hole in my belly
between my heart and my stomach and I couldn't fill it with food or
with TV or books or anything and I just felt sad, all the time, all the
time, all the time.
I must have always been that way. I remember that when I was
really small, maybe like five or six years old, I picked up a knife to
stab my mother after she scolded me for some reason or the other.
She denies this story, by the way. She says it never happened. But I
remember the weight of the blade in my hand. I remember the rage
and pain I felt because she had made me angry, and I remember
thinking if I could hit her hard hard hard she would stop hurting
me. And I remember too that she took the knife away and spanked
me before I was sent to bed. I woke up later feeling, not for the first
time and not for the last, that big pit.
The hole was bigger than me, sometimes, and when I woke up
that day, the day after I tried to stab my mother, the hole was there,
big and yawning and evil and hard and ugly. I hated myself for what
I had done and I wished I had tried to kill myself with that big shiny
knife instead of my mother.
It was just one of the things that weighed on me all the time,
one of the things that made me feel I wasn't good enough. School
was another.
When I was home home I went to an ordinary school. Just like
the thousand-and-something other kids at my school, I wore a
uniform that was ugly and designed to make me feel unimportant
and sheeplike; no individuality allowed. My school wasn't especially
big, or special, just a district school with ordinary teachers teaching
ordinary subjects like English and maths and social studies and
stuff like that.
Akilah and I had been friends from the first day of kindergarten.
We were the brightest kids in every class. Everybody thought we'd
both go from primary school to secondary school together. But we
didn't. When we both sat that Secondary Entrance Assessment, only
one of us did well. Akilah went to a prestigious convent school
where they taught French, not just English and Spanish. They
taught Add-Maths. They won national scholarships. They didn't
teach technical drawing or woodwork or clothing and textiles, no
practical trades at all; it wasn't that kind of school. Mine was exactly
the opposite.
I was bored most of the time. Every year was the same thing. I'd
read the books twice before the start of the term, and knew all the
information and more because I went to the little library in town
with my mother after school and looked up everything I wanted to
know before it could come up in school. I read about women's
rights, the Black Power movement, the Renaissance, the Harlem
Renaissance…you name it, I've read it. The librarians smiled
benignly at me every time I walked into the library with a stack of
books fatter than I was myself. I was all they dreamed of: a bookish
girl who would sit quietly, and methodically read the titles they had
on the fiction shelves and then start working through the Dewey
decimal system of nonfiction. It was a very small library, though,
and it didn't take me long to make my way through every book I was
even vaguely interested in.
Everybody thought I was smart.
Everybody, except me.
Though I had read all this stuff I wasn't conscious that I knew
anything, and I'd always thought of myself as kind of stupid. It
didn't help that I had an anxiety disorder that made me freak out
every time I took a test. Like the numbers on the buses, everything I
knew flew right out of my head when I got anxious. Anxiety started
as a little scared butterfly in the pit of my stomach and eventually
grew into a giant, sweeping moth that destroyed my ability to focus
and recall what I knew. I couldn't tell you how many times I'd failed
exams about things I could recite backward and forward.
The last test I sat at my old school was about earth science. I
knew all about clouds and fronts and the tides—but not one useful
fact stayed in my head during that test. Of course, I failed. I thought
back to that test and kicked myself because I knew all the answers.
Somehow I couldn't convince my brain that I did, not when the test
was actually going on.
Honestly, I don't understand why this stuff happened to me.
Why couldn't I just take a stupid test? Why did I feel so bad, ugly,
and stupid all the time? Why was everything about me just…wrong?
Take for instance my hair. For most of my life I wore my hair in
short plaits, which my mother impatiently put in and took out on
alternate weekends, averaging about three hours each time she did
them fresh. My hair wasn't long enough to reach my shoulders, and
in my country that's saying something. Mom always says a woman's
hair is her glory and if she has good grass growing up there, it's an
asset. I never did see the point. So what if some dead cuticle pushes
out longer rather than shorter? Who cares? A few months ago I cut
it all off, without consulting my mother, and she hit the roof. But I
liked it better that way, almost clinging to my head, so short. You
look like a boy, my mother said, but I didn't care. It was my hair,
and if I wanted to cut it right off I would. I'd never missed it, not
even when the cold Edmonton breeze kissed my scalp under my
new shorter cut.
I tried to remind her that Aunt Jillian had short hair. Now,
understand that my mother is as black as the ace of spades, just like
me. For her to change color is pretty tough. But she did it; I swear
she turned pale. Aunt Jillian isn't someone you should take pattern
from, she said, then clammed up and wouldn't say anything else.
I wanted to know why not. All my life she had pointed to her
sister, Jillian, as a shining example of virtuous daughterhood, the
one who had done good and made their sick mother proud before
Granny died. Aunt Jillian was a Canadian citizen, someone with a
house and a good job and a wonderful, perfect life in the land of
milk and honey—or at least the land of nondairy creamer and
NutraSweet. Aunt Jillian was the reason I had to do well in school,
because I had to go to the same prestigious high school and meet all
the same targets she had to carry on the family legacy. My mom had
not been great at school. But I was supposed to be a top student, like
Aunt Jillian, be president of the French club, become a swimming
champ, lead the debate team, etc., etc. I was supposed to be
everything my mother had never had the chance to be, everything
Jillian had been so effortlessly.
And then, all of a sudden, Jillian was not someone to take
pattern from?
Now, understand that at that point I'd met Jillian once in my
life. I was six when my grandmother died of breast cancer and
Jillian flew in from Canada for the funeral. She stayed to visit for
three weeks. I would never forget her sweetly fragrant suitcases full
of clothes and shoes and other presents for my mother and me. The
schoolgirl I knew from the faded pictures in my mother's dog-eared
photo album had grown up. She was a big woman with a head of
short, curly, natural hair. Aunt Jillian wasn't married; my mom said
loudly to anyone who asked that Jillian wasn't in the market for a
man and would never be. The Jillian I met wore lots of shiny silver
jewelry, from the lobes of her ears to the tops, around her neck and
on her wrists and her fingers, and even in her nose. She never wore
makeup and she was always in black jeans and a black T-shirt, no
matter what the weather. She even wore that with a black jacket to
Granny Rose's funeral. Of course I asked her, in front of a group of
old people and my mortified mother, “Aunty Jillian, didn't you wear
those same clothes yesterday?” My mom pinched me hard, but
Jillian only laughed and laughed. I never forgot what she said: “Girl,
I wear T-shirts and jeans like a uniform. I work too hard at
everything else to work at style, too.” At six years old I accepted the
explanation. And as I got older, if I ever gave Jillian a thought, it was
People can be different, right?
Of course, when you're a child and your island is the world and
your world doesn't include a sophisticated understanding of the real
world in its entirety, none of that means anything to you. It was
only when I got to Canada and moved into her house that I
understood.
Aunty Jillian wasn't single.
Aunty Jillian was gay.
When you're little there's a lot you take for granted. Then, I
never really thought about my mother or her family. Now, I had too
many other things to worry about than the family I'd never had. My
grandfather died before I was born, and I barely got to know Granny
Rose. We never visited any distant cousins. It was just my mom,
Cynthia, and her big sister, Jillian, who was not really a part of our
day-to-day lives because she lived in Canada and she and my mom
weren't all that close anymore. Yeah, they were Facebook friends,
but I really hadn't paid her that much attention. Was I completely
oblivious to the fact that she was obviously, visibly queer? Pretty
much. What can I say? It didn't matter to me, not before I moved
here to Edmonton.
At least Cynthia had a sister who she grew up with. I grew up
alone. And though it sounds strange to say because I am an only
child, I have never been my mother's favorite. I felt she had a quiet
contempt for everything about me. My hair was only one of the
problems. It's actually funny because there's nobody in the world I
resemble more than my mother. We have such similar faces, we
could pass for sisters. We're both slender and dark, with the same
thick, kinky hair, which she wears dead straight. She's shorter than
me, though. I guess I got my height from my dad—my mother never
talked about him, and I confess I didn't have too much interest in
the guy who abandoned us before I was born. Jerk.
What's really weird is that my whole life my mother compared
me to Jillian. It happened all the time. If I picked up a book that
Jillian might have liked, my mother commented on it. When I
wanted to go to the convent school after sitting my Secondary
Entrance Assessment, Mom brought up the fact that it was where
Jillian had gone—as if I could forget given the photos I'd seen all my
life of Jillian so proud in her convent uniform. And when I failed
the exam—or rather, failed to pass for the convent school—my
mother never stopped mentioning it. She constantly talked about
Jillian's accomplishments, her likes and her dislikes, what she used
to do as a child, what she used to say, what Jillian used to look like
before she cut off her wild, curly hair. Somehow she never
mentioned that Jillian was not just gay, but practically married to a
woman named Julie.
All that is confusing to me.
For a ton of reasons.
B
u
t
I
'
v
e
fi
l
l
e
d
m
y
fi
v
e
p
a
g
e
s
fo
r
t
h
e
d
a
y
,
s
o
I
g
u
e
s
s
I
'
l
l
w
r
i
t
e
m
o
r
e
l
a
t
e
r
.
I knocked on the back door before I slipped my key into the lock,
just being polite as my mother had taught me to be. After all, this
wasn't my house, even if it was my home at the moment. As usual,
nobody answered. Jillian and Julie were down in the basement at
work.
They were trying to branch out their little web design company
into ebook publishing. I didn't know anything about ebooks—
nobody I knew in Trinidad read them. We preferred macoing people
on Facebook. I wondered if an ebook was the same as publishing
your stories online. You could find some decent stories on the
internet, like one I had read earlier that day at the library about a
girl who fell in love with her neighbor and when their parents found
out and broke them up, she tried to kill herself. I liked the writing,
but I couldn't believe the girl actually told her mother when she
first felt suicidal. Who even does that? I never told any adults that I
was sad all the time and that I would rather put an end to those
feelings entirely. Who does that? Adults don't think kids are real
people anyway. My mother only paid attention to me after I started
vomiting my guts out on her kitchen floor. I had no plans to do that
on Aunt Jillian's kitchen floor for now.
I liked Aunt Jillian, and the web design stuff was mad decent,
though quite frankly I don't care to know how the internet actually
works, only that it does. Or I used to care. I used to have email for
school, and Instagram like the other kids at my school—how else do
you talk to anybody?—but when I had my troubles, as my mother
refers to my recent past, I deleted all my accounts. Having Akilah on
Skype was my one lifeline. Kind of extreme, but the doctor
recommended I stay off social media. Maybe I never will turn them
back on. I'm a Caribbean hermit in exile in Edmonton. I could
disappear amidst the cookie-cutter houses.
When no one answered my knock, I went into the house. Their
kitchen floor, like everything else in Jillian and Julie's house, was
spotless. Julie was a fiend for cleaning, Saturdays she'd attack dirt
like she had a personal vendetta against it. She would maintain a
low-grade surveillance on grime, and there would be occasional
sniper fire at it for the rest of the week. My mom was a good
housekeeper, but next to Julie she seemed slovenly. There was dust
on our bookshelves at home! Not here. Julie even took a cloth and
wiped the books themselves. The kitchen was her special domain,
and it always smelled a little of pine cleaner. I'd never seen a bread
crumb or juice stain on the counters, and a glass didn't get the
chance to sit in the sink for more than a minute or two before Julie
swept in to wash up. That was the case this evening. From the bottle
they always kept in the fridge I poured myself a glass of cranberry
juice, drank it in thirsty gulps, and put the glass in the sink. I went
to my room to put down my backpack and the books I had borrowed
at the library, and by the time I came back the glass was washed and
turned over on the drip tray. There was no sign of Julie herself,
though.
“Thanks, Julie!” I yelled from the top of the basement stairs. “I
would have washed it, you know!”
“I know, sweetie!” she yelled back. In a second, I heard Aunt
Jillian's heavy footsteps on the wooden stairs. Unlike my mother,
who made me feel bad for feeling sad, Jillian and Julie acted like I
was a regular girl. It was an unusual sensation, being thought of as
normal, but a good one. It made me almost happy.
“Hey, sugar,” she said as her short fluffy Afro popped into view.
“What's up?”
“Oh, nothing much. A cop tried to hit on me at the bus stop,” I
said, pretending to be casual, though talking about it reminded me
of my panic attack—which I didn't mention to Jillian. Instead of
telling her I was struggling, and why, I continued with arguably the
least important thing that had happened to me that afternoon. “He
backed off in a hurry when I told him I was fourteen.”
“Almost fifteen,” Jillian murmured automatically.
“But still fourteen for now,” I replied, winking. “Poor guy.”
“Did you tell him that your aunt would kill him too?” Jillian
asked drily.
“Oh, no, we didn't get that well acquainted.”
“Really,” she said, pouring herself some juice. “What did you do
today? Go to the gym?” She peered at my sneakers, which were
starting to look a hot mess. The laces—let's say they used to be
white; and the soles were decidedly un-perky. I worked out on the
treadmill at the gym every couple of days on top of regularly
walking all over the city and through the suburbs. It was enough to
take a toll on my footwear.
“Looks like we need to take you to the mall for some runners,”
she surmised.
I waved away her suggestion. “Nah,” I said, scuffing my toe in
embarrassment. With Jillian having paid for my plane ticket already
because my mom didn't make that much money, I didn't want her
to feel I was taking advantage of her generosity. She was always
getting me stuff, little things like music on iTunes and cute
notebooks and pens and T-shirts, and I couldn't say no if I wanted
to. So I didn't. When I'd gotten to Edmonton, she'd taken me
shopping, and now, for the first time in my life, I had a wardrobe of
clothes that wasn't just soulless gray uniforms, and that I actually
liked. A pair of sneakers would be just one more thing she got me,
but I didn't want to ask for them. Looking at my watch, I thought
again of how Cynthia never gave me gifts for no reason. It made me
feel a squishy discomfort in my belly when I thought of the
contrast.
“Could you call them sneakers like a normal person, please?” I
begged Jillian with my hands clasped, like it was a really huge deal
that she was using a Canadian word. It was a tactic to change the
subject. She didn't bite, only watched me cut eye and sucked her
teeth with a steups. I folded my arms sulkily. “Yeah, maybe I do
need new sneakers. But I'm not going to call them runners.”
Jillian rolled her eyes. “Whatever, doux doux. We were going to
go out to dinner anyway; we could stop at the mall on the way
there.” I didn't have time to react to the ominous feeling in my
stomach at the mention of the mall. She took a sip of her juice and
broke into a grin, shouting, “Guess what!”
“What?”
“We got our first contract to publish an ebook!”
“Yay, I gather?” I half-smiled.
“Yay, definitely,” she confirmed. “It's just one, but it's a start. A
writer in California saw our ad on an #ownvoices publishing
Facebook page and messaged us. She said she was glad to give her
business to a fellow lesbian.”
I squirmed a little bit when she said that word. I had been living
with her and Julie for a couple of months and obviously I knew that
they were gay, but it wasn't something I was comfortable talking
about with them. They were amused and sometimes exasperated by
my attitude but didn't let it change the way they behaved, either
toward each other or toward me. They were active members of the
#ownvoices and LGBTQ communities, and I did realize enough to
know LGBTQ meant “lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer,” which, if you think about it, is a bunch of very different
kinds of people, but still people who think they have more in
common with each other than they have with the rest of the world.
At home home, I'd never given much thought at all to that
community, especially as my mother never once said anything
about it to me, not even while describing her own sister. Nothing
prepared me to consider this topic. Or talk about it.
Frankly, unless you were personally acquainted with someone
who identified in that way, odds were you didn't know anything
about their world. We didn't have TV shows that showed how Trini
LGBTQ people lived their lives, or cute Facebook videos about their
families. Aside from Aunt Jillian, there was only one other person
everyone knew. She was a trans woman famous for having her
surgery because she was the first Trini to do it, I guess. She was on
the news a lot and even ran for a city council seat in San Fernando,
which she lost. But her visibility was the exception. Where I was
from, anybody on the street who looked even a little bit less than
straight could get harassed and threatened. The priest at home once
stood on the pulpit and preached about the perils of “the sinful
LGBTQ lifestyle.” Even my school principal brought in police
officers to a special assembly to tell us that being gay, lesbian, or
anywhere on the spectrum that wasn't heterosexual was against the
law, after a boy got beat up because the kids said he was a
bullerman. I knew that was a nasty word, like if I were to be called
nigger. It actually was technically against the law in Trinidad to be
gay.
I was straight. At least, I thought I was straight. I had never
tested the hypothesis, never having had a boyfriend, but I figured I'd
never wanted to have a girlfriend either, so that settled that. Or to
be somebody else's boyfriend, come to think of it. The trans woman
everybody knew about in Trinidad used to be a guy, obviously. To be
honest, that was pretty weird to me. But I didn't know what it was
like to be trapped inside the wrong body, which is how some of
these people said they felt when they talked about it on their Insta
or whatever. Or maybe I did, in a way. Maybe I was not who I was
supposed to be and that was why I was so sad all the time.
One day, I would talk to Aunt Jillian about what it was like to be
a lesbian. I promised myself. Maybe. But for now, it was okay for us
to just sip cranberry juice in the kitchen and look at the bright
evening outside the window.
Julie came upstairs and gave me a belly noogie through my Tshirt. I didn't care about wrinkling this shirt. I had on a white one
with a frog wearing a crown. There was a speech bubble above him
that said “Any day now, princess.” I knew it was really a guy's Tshirt, but I thought it was so funny at the time that Julie bought it
for me at the freakishly ginormous mall on my first mall trip, when
she and Jillian took me on a shopping spree for new clothes. Guy
clothes and girl clothes didn't mean that much to me, mostly. I
wasn't really into fashion—not the look of an average teenage girl,
anyway—especially since I'd cut off all my hair. I just wore whatever
I wanted. People said I dressed like Jaden Smith. Needless to say,
that just pissed my mother off even more; Jaden Smith is a boy.
“Why don't you at least try to look normal?” my mother used to
ask me.
There really wasn't an answer to that, was there? And if we were
to go to the mall again, I wasn't going to be changing my habits.
Maybe I'd find another frog T-shirt, this time with a prince.
Julie mussed my cropped hair and pecked Jillian on the cheek
as she came into the room. “What's happening?”
“I think this one needs new runners,” Jillian said, throwing me a
teasing look; I faked a shudder and rolled my eyes, mouthing out
the word “sneakers” with gusto. After my panic attacks I was often
exhausted, but sometimes I acted goofy instead, wired and jittery,
like now. Maybe it was another form of nerves. She talked over my
head. “I was thinking we could stop at the mall on the way to
dinner.”
Julie nodded, wiping imaginary dirt from the kitchen counter.
“By the way, Mexican or Italian for dinner?” Jillian asked her.
“I don't care. What do you think, kid?” Julie looked to me.
As usual, I had no idea. “Mexican is nice. But Italian is nice, too.
And, come to think of it, so is steak,” I stumbled.
“Steak is another option,” Jillian agreed. “Mmm…red meat.” She
literally licked her lips. We all laughed.
“You know what they keep saying about how it's full of
cholesterol and hormones and it's really, really bad for you?” I
teased. They ate steak a couple of times a week, but they still
seemed pretty healthy. Then again, they weren't really that old, only
about thirty or so. Julie was a little bit older than Jillian, not that
she looked it.
“One steak will not kill us, surely?” asked Julie rhetorically with
a fake look of horror. Julie's black eyes shined bright with withheld
laughter and she reminded me of a pixie, tiny and pretty, despite her
usual jeans-and-T-shirt look. Unlike Jillian, though, she sometimes
wore saris and kurtas, a kind of long-sleeved man's tunic with
buttons at the neck and slits up the sides. I recognized the different
styles because I had done a project on Indo-Trinidadian traditions.
Indo-Trinidadians were the largest ethnic group in Trinidad and
lots of Trini Indian people wore traditional clothes, beyond just for
celebrating religious festivals like Diwali and Eid. People wore them
on the regular, especially Trinidadians whose grandparents and
great-great-great-grandparents came from India to work during
Indentureship a hundred years ago.
Julie had about a dozen kurtas in different colors, and she wore
them in place of a business suit when she had anything official or
important to do, which would remind me of home home. In stark
contrast to Jillian's version of dressing up—a blazer over her
signature T-shirt and jeans—Julie wore saris, and that got to me
more. With her hair long and straight, way past her waist, Julie
looked even more like an Indian film star, like Preeti Jhangiani or
another actress from the Bollywood billboards on the highway close
to my mom's house
Now she swept up her hair into a bun as she walked out of the
kitchen toward her bedroom. “You gals make up your minds and I'll
be in the shower while you do it.”
It was still bright outside as Jillian and I leaned against the
kitchen counter, relaxing. I felt so comfortable, even in spite of the
terror the outside world had made me feel just a little while earlier.
But I still wasn't used to how long it took to get dark here. Home
home it got dark by six, earlier if it was a rainy day. The sun came up
around six every morning, all year long, and went down quickly
around six every evening, all year long. When the sun rose at five in
the morning and set at six-thirty at night, that was an extreme. Here
in Canada, the sun could come up at six in the morning and go down
at nine at night, after hours of twilight. At almost six o'clock, there
were still a good three hours of light left. I knew that by the time we
were all ready to leave for dinner it would be hours from sunset but
already what I thought of as night. It was, to me, entirely magical
and a bit astounding. I would never get used to eating dinner in the
daylight, I thought.
Eating dinner out was a whole thing in and of itself, though. I'd
been to what I'd call a Fancy Restaurant twice in my life before
coming to Edmonton. Once was when Jillian visited when I was
small, and I barely remember it. The other time was supposed to be
a celebration dinner after I finished my Secondary Entrance
Assessment. I only have vague, unpleasant memories of not
knowing what to do with the cloth napkin, which we never used at
home, and having a small meltdown over the long long long menu. I
chose a burger, because it was the first thing listed, and my mother
was disappointed that I wasn't trying something better. “It's
supposed to be a treat,” she had hissed at me over the table. I did
not arrive in Canada with good memories of going to dinner, and
every time I did it with Jillian and Julie I felt a zing of worry that it
would be scary and awful. That I would mess something up.
“Thinking about doing another barbecue next Saturday,” Jillian
said casually. “What you think?”
I grunted. Inside, my heart lurched, switching the focus off the
immediate minor threat to the looming Extinction Level Event
disaster. A barbecue would mean about twenty people in and out of
the house over the course of two days, since guests would come on
Saturday and a few wouldn't leave until Sunday. I had made it
through a couple of her barbecues before. Some of the people tried
to talk to me—and that was just too frightening. I came out of my
room to eat and to use the bathroom and to show my face, to be
polite, but that was it. I couldn't do sociable. Socializing with
strangers made me feel the big, yawning hole in my belly worse
than ever, a feeling that no pill had yet entirely controlled.
I didn't tell Jillian any of that, but she must have guessed
something like it, because she said, “Hey, I won't pressure you to
come out and lime, if you're not ready to hang with our friends. But
Stevie says we should be as normal as possible and give you support
to help you get through it.”
Stevie was Dr. Khan to me. He was my shrink. He was the one
making me write a therapy journal. I usually saw him at his office in
the city, but Jillian knew him socially; he was involved with the
LGBTQ community; that's how she had met him and asked him to
take my case when I came. He was a round, brown Indian guy with
gentle mannerisms. I liked him, maybe.
“I know,” I said, irrationally a little worried that she would feel I
was trying to interfere with her life. I was aware she and Julie had
considerably reduced their entertaining, one, because they had an
extra mouth to feed and it was cutting into their budget, and two,
because it was hard for them to ignore how withdrawn and
uncomfortable I became when they had company. I fidgeted with
my hands for a moment, then said, “It will be fine, Aunty. I'll
survive.”
She looked at me with concern, her eyes soft. I smiled
awkwardly. When we heard the spray of the shower in Jillian and
Julie's bathroom, I pushed myself off the kitchen counter. “What
should I wear? To dinner, I mean,” I asked Jillian, heading to the
other bathroom to start my own preparations for going out.
“Just wear what you like, kiddo,” she said unhelpfully. I had
about an hour until we left. I would need every second of it.
I peered into the closet, trying to decide which of my outfits
would be the least offensive. I'd never had so many new clothes at
once. Clothes in Trinidad could be expensive, and my single mom
wasn't rich. I came with some of my own stuff, but most of the
wardrobe I was currently looking at was thanks to Jillian and Julie.
The three of us barreled through the mall shops and walked out
with bags and bags. I felt like a girl in a rom-com when I wasn't
absolutely freaked out about all the choices Jillian and Julie pushed
me to make that day in a huge, crowded, loud, scary new place.
The burbling ringtone started up on my phone. It was Akilah on
Skype again. She was out of her church clothes and back at home. I
recognized her bedroom, the concrete wall with breeze blocks at the
top to let the air circulate from outside. Her parents weren't rich
either. One of the things we had in common.
“You survived?” She was such a caring friend.
“Yeah, thanks,” I said with a sigh, and perched on the bed. “Sorry
to be such a pain.”
“You're not a pain. That's what friends are for,” she said. She
was smiling. I was relieved. But my relief was soon replaced by
growing terror about the evening to come.
“Ki-ki, we're about to eat dinner. What should I wear?” I
groaned in frustration.
“Since when do you care what you wear?” she answered,
chuckling. We both knew I was rather offhand about my
appearance.
“We're going out to dinner,” I said with a moan.
“Again? Your aunty rich or what?” Akilah asked seriously.
“Nah. Food over here so cheap, Ki-ki,” I said incredulously. “If
you see the fridge! Packed with food. I'll show you. Next time. Now,
can you please help me figure out what to put on?” The question
came out as a wail. “All I ever wear is jeans and a T-shirt. Jillian
does it and it looks cool. I do it and I look like a hobo. I feel my
Aunty Julie would appreciate my trying on something different for a
change. Like a dress or something.”
“I haven't seen you in a dress since First Communion,” Akilah
teased. “Besides, you look good in jeans and a T-shirt. Make that
booty pop,” she said. I looked at her wide grin on the screen, trying
to read whether she was being serious or not.
“Leave my booty out of it,” I murmured.
“What kind of Trinidadian woman are you, if you don't care
about your butt?” Now she was laughing outright. “We sing songs
about it, even! ‘Sugar bum, sugar bum-bum,' ” she sang.
The lyrics to a famous calypso didn't impress me. “Blah, blah,
blah,” I answered. Out of the blue, I thought of the pig in the party
hat at the bus station. I asked her, “Ki-ki? Do you think I'm pretty?”
She was quiet for a long moment. “I've told you. Yeah,
sometimes.”
“Wow, that's a ringing endorsement.” My shoulders slumped,
and my disappointment must have been clear from my tone.
“No, that's not what I mean,” she said. “You have a really pretty
face and a nice figure, but you hide yourself away in baggy,
shapeless clothes like you're afraid someone will notice you're
beautiful. That's why I said ‘sometimes.' What I should have said is
you're always pretty but sometimes you don't let it show. It's like
you're scared of people finding you attractive.”
“Meh, shut up.” I scowled but I knew she was right. I had major
hang-ups about the way I looked. “You know that every Trinidadian
boy only wants a red-skinned girlfriend with long, curly hair and a
big butt. Brown-skinned girls are okay, but their lips and noses can't
be too African—”
“Boys are dumb.”
“Yeah, but I'm too dark, my hair is too picky, and worst of all,
my butt is flat! I'll never get a boyfriend,” I bawled in mock agony.
“Papa! I never knew you wanted a boyfriend,” Akilah teased.
“You always have your head stuck in a book. Boys at your school
don't even know you exist.”
A truthful girl, Akilah. Which was neither here nor there at the
moment; the point was that she went to an all-girls school, so how
would she know what anyone at my coed institution thought of me?
“What would a convent girl like you know about boys at my school,
anyway?” I grumbled, picking at an old scab. It still killed me that
Akilah—who always aced her exams—had been placed in the very
prestigious school I had dreamed of attending, while I had been
placed in an ordinary one. All because of that one exam.
“I saw that girl we went to primary school with, the one who's in
your class—what's her name? Britney? She was at the mall. You
might think nobody talks your business but she said your whole
school is full of rumors about why you left so suddenly before the
end of the school year. The talk is that you got pregnant and your
mother sent you away—except that nobody can figure out who the
baby daddy was that knocked you up. They think you have never
been alone with a boy in your life.”
“Who's this ‘they' and why do ‘they' maco so much? I had an
immaculate conception, then?” I giggled, but I was nauseated. Not
for blasphemy; I went to church with my mom, yeah, but I was not
at all religious. Of course, “they,” whoever they were, were right. I
never had been alone with a boy. To be honest, I wouldn't have
known what to do if someone found me interesting. And the
thought that anybody was talking about me made me a little sick. I
much preferred to be invisible. But I put those thoughts behind me.
“Ki-ki, back to my IRL problems. What am I going to wear?”
“All right,” she said, flexing her arms and swinging her fists like
a boxer warming up for a fight. “What do we have to choose from?”
I panned the camera to show the contents of the small closet lit
by a dim overhead bulb. Bright red plaid flannel caught my eye.
“What about this?” I pulled out the long-sleeved shirt and put it on
to show Akilah.
“With what?”
“Dunno.”
She pursed her lips and tapped them with her index finger
thoughtfully. “I know. What about that little green thing you
showed me the other day?”
“With the crossbones on it? Okay. With which jeans?” I'd
already pulled out three different washes and tossed them on the
bed. I rummaged in the dresser drawer where I kept my T-shirts and
selected the baggy crop top she'd recommended. I put it next to the
black, the indigo, and the faded blue. “Yasssss,” Akilah squealed.
“Boyfriend jeans for the win!” I shouted giddily. I could not
forget that I was getting dressed to go shopping and to dinner, both
of which would make my anxiety shoot through the roof. Yet I felt
so happy in that moment. My best friend and I were laughing
together and planning outfits like normal girls. Aunty Jillian and
Aunty Julie were the coolest foster parents in the world. It was just
a brief excursion. What could go wrong?
journal session 2
“Write about your mom,” he said. “It will help,” he said.
If my mom and I were in a Facebook relationship our status
would be “It's Complicated.” My mom calls regularly. That is both a
good thing and a bad thing.
I know it might not sound like it, but I love my mom. She gave
me life and I owe her my eyes and my good cheekbones and my long
legs and my razor-sharp wit and my love of reading. We have the
same skin color, and my hair is like hers—or would have been if she
didn't straighten it with chemicals every two months. But despite
our similarities, I've always been a huge disappointment to her. I
looked into her eyes and saw the shadowed hopes that one day I'd
turn into the kind of girl she wanted: a nice, sweet, kind girl who
wears dresses constantly and goes to parties and has lots of friends
and went to a prestigious school and did well in all the suitable
subjects. What she ended up with was me. I knew that every time
she looked at me, she saw all the things I could have been but—as
she put it—I chose not to be. I was a walking failure to her.
And that was before I was rushed to the hospital.
Because I am an only child, there is not even a sibling to take
the pressure off me. My mom has Aunty Jillian to compare herself
to for all her life—and that must be terrible, since Jillian was
perfect, except for the teeny, tiny fact that she was a homosexual—a
cardinal sin in the eyes of our Trinidad community. Worse yet, my
mom is the cheap knockoff version of Jillian. Younger by two years,
she doesn't consider herself as pretty, as smart, nor as ambitious.
Jillian left Trinidad at twenty to study in Canada and never moved
back home home. By Canadian standards she isn't a great success,
just average, but by island standards anything one does “away” is
made that much more special and exciting and extraordinary. My
mom, on the other hand, became a primary school clerk after my
Granny Rose died. Being a clerk was a job Cynthia could do as a
single mother, not a vocation. She has a comfortable, boring life—
nothing like Jillian's. As a magazine writer Jillian was always jetting
around Canada and the US for stories, getting to meet lots and lots
of people. My mom leaves for work at eight in the morning, comes
home at five in the afternoon, goes to church on Sundays, and lives
a quiet, dull life.
Jillian didn't tell my mom that she had to struggle to do all that
jetting around because she didn't have a steady job and she lived
hand-to-mouth. “I woke at thirty with no savings, no insurance, and
no backup plan for retirement. Thank God for socialism, eh?” Jillian
told me ruefully, winking, in one of our first conversations when I
got to Canada.
She said she envied my mom's stability. “If she only knew how
much I wish I had a kid and a pension. Oy vey!” she said with a
laugh. “I'd do anything to know that when I'm sixty I can sit back if
I want. Cynthia doesn't know how good she has it.”
One of the reasons she and Julie had set up the publishing
company was so that they could get more stability. And Jillian had
given up her magazine work. They want to start a family. I know
this because one night when I was going to the bathroom really late,
I overheard them having an argument. I felt like a creep, sneaking
as close to their door as I could without being obvious, just to listen.
Jillian was crying, saying, “You don't know what it's like to want a
baby, Julie, you don't.”
Julie's voice was low and sweet, but firm. “I know what it feels
like. Come on, you know I want a baby as much as you do. But I
don't see how we can have a child together right now!”
I didn't see how either. Same-sex couples were a thing, of course
I knew that; I'd seen it on TV and, like, a ton of videos. But I didn't
actually know any kids with gay parents. How would it work? I
wondered.
Jillian wasn't done, though, and I barely heard her last words
through her sobs. “Every time I think of what Cynthia must have
put that poor child through…Why wasn't she my daughter? Why
wasn't she my little girl?”
It didn't make sense how she was talking about me.
I tiptoed back to my bedroom in confusion mixed with an
unfamiliar but pleasing feeling. I guess up until that point I had
never considered myself such a prize. Imagine that someone wanted
me. Me!
I haven't spoken to my aunt about what I overheard, because I
don't want her to know I listened to their private conversation, but
it's stuck in my mind. It was the first time I realized that someone
in my family could want me in their life.
My mother certainly never behaves like that. She doesn't
mistreat me. She is a decent mother and I wouldn't call her abusive
or anything. I got the normal one or two slaps most Caribbean kids
got from their mothers for bad behavior. But neither by word nor
deed has she showed she really wants me around. She's done what
she had to do. I am a chore, a responsibility, but not a pleasure and
certainly not a privilege.
Now that I am in exile, every week, like clockwork, my mom
either phones on the landline or Skypes me. She asks the same
questions, carefully avoiding any mention of my illness. We don't
talk about it anymore, after her first recriminations and attempts to
blame me for my craziness. Now she pretends I am on holiday. My
troubles have somehow turned into an extended vacay.
The first time I went to the West Edmonton Mall I had the
overwhelming impression of, well, being overwhelmed. It was huge.
It was literally the biggest mall on this continent and was as big as
my hometown. It had its own waterpark and ice rink. There was a
pirate ship, for crying out loud. Arcades. Amusement parks. A roller
coaster. Shops. Shops for shoes, books, clothes, household goods,
electronics, teddy bears, jewelry, art, you name it. Of course, we had
malls in Trinidad. But this was not a regular mall. You could walk
for days and never reach the end. After the Apocalypse, all the
survivors in Edmonton could probably just pack up and move into
the mall. I had never seen so much stuff in one place.
Jet-lagged and still half dozing from my long trip the day before,
I stumbled through dozens of shops behind Jillian and Julie, who
were trying to get me to look excited instead of scared. “Try this,”
they kept saying, as they put items in my hand and walked me to
changing room after changing room. Honestly, all I remember is a
blur of color and movement. I didn't speak much because I was
biting my lips, holding back my panic.
This trip couldn't be as bad—even if walking toward the
entrance was like preparing to enter a new country, one that was
bright and noisy and full of decisions for me to make. I took a deep
breath and exhaled. I felt like that afternoon's misfortune was
behind me. I could do this. We were on a clock, too, so Julie took
charge and went straight to the first sports-gear place we came to.
Jillian followed and my energy abruptly dipped. I trailed behind
them, dragging my feet. Inside I was still kind of excited. Who
wouldn't want to replace beat-up old sneakers with new kicks? But
that was tangled with my shame. Shame that I was completely
dependent on my aunt. Shame that I was a strain on her limited
resources. Which started me thinking about the reasons I was in
Canada in the first place. Which reminded me of my panic attack
that afternoon. I felt miserable.
Julie pointed out a few styles on the shelves and I shrugged
ambivalently. She was patient, though. “What about this? I think it's
a good brand. They look comfortable,” she said, picking up a white
tennis shoe with glow-in-the-dark pink stripes. A bright orange
sticker indicated it was marked down.
I shrugged again. I didn't love them, but they were on sale. Less
expense for my aunts. A salesman came over and Julie asked him
for my size. We sat on the chairs waiting for him to return with a
pair for me to try on. I toed off my shoes and huddled my socked
feet together, glued my eyes to the display wall of shelves and
shelves of sneakers, and tried to shrink into my oversized plaid shirt
and shapeless jeans. Julie checked her phone while we waited.
“Try these,” the guy said, coming back holding a box and sitting
in front of my chair. He handed me the shoes one at a time.
I eased in my feet. The shoes were comfy. The thick padding
inside made my toes and insteps feel as snug as a bug in a rug.
Standing, I bounced a little to test the springy soles. The shoes were
ugly, but boy, did they fit. I gave Julie two thumbs-up and a brief
smile.
“Wow, that was quick! You sure you want these?” In a low voice
just for me to hear, she said, “We can try others, you know. Take
your time. We don't have to rush.”
“No, it's okay, Aunty. I like them. Can we get them?” I was so
happy with how fast we got my new, cushy shoes. I didn't want to
take them off. I even kept them on while Jillian paid at the register.
It wasn't half as horrible as I'd imagined it would be. And we were
done shopping for the day. I finally felt relieved as we left the mall.
But only for a moment. Lunch was a distant memory and my
belly began to growl as I slid into the backseat of the car. We still
had to go to dinner at a Fancy Restaurant.
—
We walked into Tacos and Tequila—we voted to have Mexican after
all—and I nearly died.
A boy who was seated at one of the tables in a corner with two
neatly dressed, oldish white men was the most gorgeous guy I'd
ever seen. He looked about sixteen, with clear skin the color of an
apple about ten minutes after it had been cut, sort of caramel brown
but not so buttery. His curly hair was so perfect that it could have
been in a shampoo commercial. He had hazel eyes, pink lips, a
button nose, and a smattering of reddish-brown freckles on his high
cheekbones. I had never seen anybody so good-looking in real life
before. I mean, I'd seen movie stars, and they were attractive, but
they were only about half my height in real life so I figured there
were lots of things that clever camera angles could simulate,
including a cute face.
There were no cameras here. Just the best-looking guy I'd ever
seen. And he was tall AF, judging by the length of the legs I saw
folded under the table and the length of the arms I saw folded above
it.
Then Julie and Aunt Jillian caused me to have a minor heart
attack in the middle of the restaurant.
“It's Nathan and Bill!” Julie nudged Jillian, pointing to the two
men and the demigod of a teenager. “Wow, I haven't seen them in
ages! I wonder if they've ordered yet.”
We had been walking behind the hostess who had met us at the
door. Jillian stopped her and started to explain. “Sí, por supuesto,
sure,” the hostess said with a light Latin Canadian accent, smiling as
she gestured for us to go on.
Julie waved and led the way forward. I barely noticed the
restaurant, which seemed cheerful and bright with colorfully
embroidered white tablecloths and centerpieces of low baskets of
fresh flowers. There were hellos, long-time-no-sees, and plenty of
air-kisses between the adults while the boy and I nodded at each
other awkwardly. After Jillian introduced me to the adults, Julie
added, “Nathan and Jillian were friends at university. He and Bill
are partners in their own law firm downtown.”
“And this young man is Joshua, my son,” Nathan said. I could
see the resemblance between them. They were both tall and slim.
Both had very symmetrical features, bright hazel eyes, and long
eyelashes. But while Nathan was a blond white man, Joshua was
clearly black. He must have got his adorable nose, those exquisite
cheekbones, and his dark, curly hair from his mom's side of the
family.
“Joshua is also Jillian's godson, isn't that right, Jillian?”
Jillian nodded. “Though I haven't seen him since he was in
grade school! He grow up nice, eh, to use a Trini expression.” They
all laughed except for Joshua. Was the Cute Boy blushing?
Nathan insisted we join them. They hadn't ordered anything but
drinks, and those hadn't been served yet; Nathan hailed the hostess
and asked for a new pitcher of margaritas and another table for us.
We stood in a quiet group as a waiter brought over an extra table,
joining them together to make one long rectangle. After fixing our
place settings, three to a side, he dashed away. The hostess
reappeared and gave us menus once we'd taken our seats, Jillian
and Julie and Nathan on one side, Bill and Joshua and me on the
other. Rushing back, the waiter brought margaritas for the adults,
with four weirdly wide glasses with salt-encrusted rims. Next he
came with glasses of ginger ale with ice for me and Joshua. He ran
to the front again and got a pitcher of water, too, pouring some for
everyone as the hostess oversaw. In Trinidad we don't tip, not
usually; it's just not something we do. But these two people were
working so hard, even I, a Trini, had to admit they were earning a
nice one tonight.
The adults helped themselves to their drinks in the odd glasses.
Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Joshua darting a look at me as he
picked up the ginger ale and offered to cheers mine with a shy
smile. I didn't want him to see that my hands were trembling. My
voice was shaky too when I croaked, “Oh, thanks.” My throat was a
dune in the Kalahari.
I couldn't believe we were having dinner together, me, next to
the most gorgeous boy I'd ever seen in real life. I wished I could call
Akilah instantly to discuss the new development of the Cute Boy
and the terror I felt, but I knew if I pulled out my phone it would be
rude and Jillian and Julie would be disappointed in me. So I ducked
my head and tried not to pass out from lack of oxygen.
I should have said steak. It wasn't as messy as Mexican, and
between the guacamole, salsa, and tortilla chips there was all kinds
of potential for food falling on my clothes, my clothes that I
obviously shouldn't have worn. My outfit was cool for the mall, but
now there was this guy and we were at dinner and I felt I looked like
a slob in ripped, baggy jeans and a flannel shirt. I was so scared I'd
make a fool of myself and drop the food like a baby. Oh God, and
those hideous sneakers! I should have at least put on some
ChapStick. My mouth was dry and my lips felt ashy. I was horribly
unprepared for the moment. There was a sour, cramped feeling in
the pit of my stomach. Imagining how I must have looked to the
Cute Boy, I was filled with self-disgust. I lost my appetite, though
minutes before I had been hungry enough to eat my own arm.
Jillian looked at me from time to time while she chatted with
Nathan and Bill. She made eye contact with Julie, who turned her
attention to us. “So, Joshua!” Julie said, beaming.
He blushed. “People call me Josh,” he told her.
“Lovely to meet you, Josh,” she said, before adding to Jillian,
“This gorgeous kid is your godson?” She asked Josh directly, “Where
has Nathan been hiding you?”
“I live in Brooklyn with my mom,” Josh said. “I'm with my dad
on vacations.”
“Oh, so you'll be here for a few more weeks, then?” He nodded. I
swallowed, watching a determined expression settle on Julie's face.
Something told me she was going to try to get us to be friends. She
wouldn't…would she? But I was right about the glint in her eye. She
pointed to me. “She's here for a while, too. Maybe you two can
spend some time together,” Julie suggested. I tried to keep
breathing but it was a challenge. My throat still wasn't working that
well. I made a grimace that I tried to pass for a smile.
The waiter came back and took our entrée orders. I went last,
having the same thing as Julie, chicken mole. I had no idea what it
was; I'd never seen Mexican food in Trinidad. But I thought, who
doesn't like chicken? The truth was it was easier to order what
someone else had, to just avoid choosing from the menu.
“How is your mom, by the way?” Jillian asked Josh. “I haven't
seen Shelly in…gosh, I don't know how long. Is she still an awesome
dancer?”
Nathan jumped in mischievously. “She never was as good a
dancer as you, Jillian.”
“Ha!” They shared a fond look. My aunt laughed and shook her
head. “Nathan used to run after me back in the days when he
thought I was straight,” she confided to me across the table in an
outrageously loud whisper, much to the Cute Boy's mortification
and the other adults' amusement. Good, I thought, watching him
blush. At least I'm not the only one who has to suffer through this
ordeal of Death by Shame.
“Can you blame me?” Nathan asked, fake leering at Jillian.
“Look at you. What's not to love? Besides, you never told me you
were gay back then.”
Jillian laughed again. “I never told anyone I was gay back then.
Coming out was a process. Besides, Shelly was so much more
into you.”
“Good thing I married her,” Nathan quipped. “Though God
knows that didn't go how we planned.”
His joke fell flat. A short, uncomfortable silence fell over the
table. I guessed Nathan and Shelly had had a rough divorce. The fact
that she'd moved to another country afterward was probably a giant
clue.
“How do you like Edmonton?” Julie asked Josh, changing the
subject.
Before he could say anything, Nathan answered for him while
looking squarely at me. “Biracial kids like Joshua have a hard time
living in largely white communities like Edmonton.” He sounded
like he'd read that in a manual. I nodded, choking down a dry
tortilla chip I hastily grabbed from the basket in front of me so I
wouldn't have to respond.
I personally thought Edmonton was as homogenous as you
wanted it to be. I saw plenty of black and brown people in the city
when I walked around.
Julie seemed to agree with my thought. “Come on, Nathan. I
think you can safely call Edmonton multicultural. Even right here in
this restaurant, there is diversity: I was born in Canada but I'm
South Asian, Indian to be specific. And Jillian and her niece are
black, from Trinidad. The waiter is Indigenous. The hostess is Latin
American. And at least two of us at this table are gay, a minority in
itself—don't you think that counts as diversity?”
Nathan hemmed and hawed while he tried to figure out how to
reply. I could tell he and Bill were work partners, not romantic
partners, from the way they talked to one another. For some reason
Nathan hadn't hung out with Jillian and Julie for a really long time.
As Nathan kept talking, I began to guess why. “Yes, yes, I guess
Edmonton has those people….” He waved his hand in a vague,
dismissive gesture. I presumed by “those people” he meant gay
people, black people, Caribbean people, Asian people, Native
Canadians…pretty much anyone who wasn't a straight white man. I
wasn't crazy, because even Bill began to look at him with a frown.
“Yes, there's diversity. But compared to New York? To Toronto, eh?
Those people still aren't the ones in power. Look at Edmonton's City
Council. Hardly any of those people there.”
There was something in his tone that made me ashamed of my
skin. It made me feel insignificant, even though he was saying
words that should have been inclusive. Instead, I felt invisible. I
wondered what he called black people when his son and other
people of color weren't around. Josh just sat there with his face
turning redder and redder; soon he was the same shade as his
freckles.
I didn't say anything. I toyed with my phone, spinning it around
and around on the table. The food arrived in record time and I
instantly regretted my order when I saw how much sauce there was
on the dish. While the adults kept their conversation up, I scraped
off the sticky brown goop and cut up my chicken. I dipped the
slivers of meat cautiously into the sauce and ate them one at a time.
Or tried to. I had never been so hungry but so completely incapable
of eating. My anxiety made my mouth arid. Everything took forever
to chew, ending up in an pasty, tasteless lump at the back of my
tongue. I had to force myself to swallow with a gulp. It was noisy.
My ears burned in mortification. There was a fiery ball where my
stomach should have been.
But it wasn't all bad. Even though eighty percent of me was
freaking out, there was a good twenty percent left. That part of me
was focused entirely on Josh. I heard him breathing. I smelled his
cologne; it was nice and reminded me of a park or something sunny
and fresh. We had plenty of space between us but somehow, I could
feel how warm he was from all the way in my seat.
Josh and I kept sneaking peeks at each other when we thought
the other wasn't looking, a fact that wasn't lost on Nathan, who
thought it was a good idea to draw attention to our glances.
“These two can't keep their eyes off each other, Jill,” he
chortled.
I thought the restaurant floor should open right up and swallow
me whole, but it didn't and I was stuck there, sitting next to the
Cute Boy and feeling sicker and sicker. The lumpy food and
Nathan's offhand comment stuck in my throat. I started to sweat,
which made everything worse because now I was feeling not just
badly dressed, but damp, too. As soon as I could, I excused myself
and dashed to the bathroom. For a while I leaned my wet forehead
against the large, cold mirror, trying to collect myself, trying to
ketch mehself, as Trinis would say. I stood back. The mirror was
surrounded by tiny sombreros and maracas and chili peppers. The
décor here was super cheesy, and at another time I might have
laughed about it with Akilah, but it didn't matter to me now. All I
felt was my deep shame, and the awful pain in the center of my
belly. Looking at myself, all I could see was a skinny, ugly girl in
garish, mismatched clothes that didn't fit.
I took ten deep breaths, as Dr. Khan had taught me in our first
session when I described what a panic attack felt like. He'd said the
breathing should calm me down, but it didn't, not now. I reminded
myself that I was in a public restroom and it was no place for a
meltdown. I kept repeating in my head, trying to convince myself, I
will not scream, I will not scream, I will not scream. Somebody was
trying to come in, pushing against the door, so I went into one of
the three cubicles to hide. Locked in, I went through the mantra
again. I will not scream, I will not scream, I will not scream.
I reached a shaky hand into my pocket for my phone, but it
wasn't there. I must have left it on the table when I fled.
I will not scream, I will not scream.
Nope.
I screamed. I stuffed my fist in my mouth and I screamed and
screamed again. It was a little scream, but it burst the dam and I
started to cry. I tried my best to muffle the huge, ugly gulps and
gasps, pressing my face into my hands to hold in the noise, my
tears, and the trailing clear snat that dripped from my nostrils.
When the woman in the stall next to mine asked very timidly, “Are
you okay in there?” I quickly got my act together and ceased crying
and stopped my hands from shaking and generally tried to sound
normal.
“Oh, fine, fine,” I said. “Just letting off a little steam.” I closed
my eyes and felt my sense of hopelessness rising higher and higher.
Once again, I wished I had my phone. But even if I had it, should I
call Ki-ki and burden her with my crap again, for the second time
today? I was a sandbag, dragging down everyone around me. No
wonder my mother didn't want me and sent me away. I was
worthless all over again. Why was I even alive?
The woman left the bathroom and I stayed where I was for a
minute. I put the seat cover down and sat on it, rocking back and
forth and squeezing my eyes shut to try to not feel so bad, but
nothing was working. My pounding heart felt like it wanted to jump
out of my mouth.
It must have been a long minute. Eventually, Julie came in.
“You all right in there, muffin?”
I didn't answer. I couldn't. If I'd tried to, I'd have started
bawling really hard. Her soothing voice was the last thing I needed.
All it did was remind me of the mom I wished I had. Home home,
Cynthia had once or twice found me crying. All she ever said was
“You want me to give you something to cry for? Is a good cut-tail
you want!”
Instead, Julie said, “Honey?” She sounded concerned. “Open the
door. Let me in.”
Numbly, I unlocked the stall for her. She took a look at me and
hugged me tight and said it'd be okay. That didn't help much, only
made me want to cry more, and so I did. I also started hitting my
balled fists against my thighs. Something inside me had come
undone.
I'm on some pretty strong antidepressants and antianxiety
meds, and have been ever since they took me to the hospital after I
overdosed on painkillers to try to kill myself.
I remember a group of doctors, quiet as a cloud, drifting from
bed to bed in the children's ward. A kind-faced older man seemed to
do the talking for the team as he explained my wonky brain
chemistry, and said that I might have to take meds for the rest of
my life. Nice.
Anyway, the medication isn't the only thing they prescribed. I
was also supposed to go to group therapy with a counselor, but my
mom couldn't afford to pay a shrink and, since arriving in Canada, I
had rejected any suggestion of it when Dr. Khan brought it up.
Every now and then my aunts tentatively raised the question but I
always changed the subject. I was taking my meds—antidepressant
in the morning, antianxiety pill at night. Dr. Khan had made me
promise to write in a journal. That was all I could do for now and
since I had been in Edmonton it had worked to keep me more or
less okay. I had felt panic sometimes, like at the bus stop earlier, but
I didn't generally want to tear my own face off; I felt sadness, but
not the giant abyss that I had wanted to fall into the day I took the
bottle of pills, to fall and never return.
But those good old days of managing my depression and anxiety
with just medication seemed to be over. I was having the ice cream
sundae of meltdowns in the bathroom of Tacos and Tequila.
After holding me for a few minutes, Julie sat me down, told me
not to worry, and left to fetch Aunt Jillian.
Could anything be worse than what I was going to call this—the
Tacos and Tequila Incident? As crazy as it seemed, the Cute Boy
seemed interested in me. He was looking at me, wasn't he? Yeah,
and he knows you were looking at him, too. His dad announced it to
the whole wide world. I sat on the toilet seat replaying the entire
awful episode over and over in slow motion. I groaned from deep
down in my cramping belly.
When Aunt Jillian appeared, she didn't even blink to see me
wet-faced and shaking in a toilet cubicle. She went into crisis mode.
“Right. Let's get her out of here and back home. We'll deal with this
better there.”
The idea of going out into the restaurant looking like that made
me freak out even more. I clutched Jillian's hand. “Please, please,
Aunty, please don't make me have to say goodbye,” I begged. This
time, I wasn't playing or being goofy. I was really scared of having
anybody else see me with my snatty nose and my still-dripping face
swollen from crying.
“Of course you don't have to say goodbye, sweetie. We'll tell
them you're not feeling well and you send your apologies, that's all,”
said Julie. Though I was kind of glad I didn't have to talk to anyone,
especially the Cute Boy, somewhere under the weeping, wailing, and
gnashing of teeth I was a bit sorry. He really was gorgeous. That was
the last coherent thought I had for days.
journal session 3
The last time I felt like that, I had a nervous breakdown. This is
what I remember.
I opened my eyes to a white fluorescent strip light. The bed
below me was hard and narrow. I tried to turn, feeling the thin sheet
sliding on the vinyl mattress cover, and reached out to push myself
up. That's when I noticed I was wearing a strange gown and had an
IV drip in my arm. I looked around. Five other kids lay in railed beds
like mine around the room, mostly sleeping or playing on their
phones. One was awake and looking at me. There was a giant yellow
banana painted on the wall behind his bed. I guessed it was the
children's ward of a hospital. It was day; I could see light through
the windows in one wall, but I couldn't tell what time it was. My
stomach burned like acid.
I had a sore throat, too. Banana Kid heard me clearing it and
took it as an invitation to chat. He asked in a friendly, curious tone,
“You's the one who take tablets to kill yourself? I hear the nurses
talking about you.”
I slumped back down and turned my face away. Luckily, I was in
a corner. It was what I deserved, anyway, to lie alone in a corner. I
was alive. I didn't know how to feel about that. Should I be
disappointed? Or relieved?
“Nursie!” Banana Kid yelled. “Look, the girl who take the tablets
wake up!”
Outrageous! You rude little—! I swung around to complain but
the words froze in my mouth when I noticed there was a counter by
the doorway to the ward where two women in white sat doing
paperwork. One of them, a chubby brown-skinned lady, sighed
loudly and creaked to her feet. Her lack of amusement showed in
her stiff neck. “Shhh! Hush, Clive. You feel because you living here
you could bawl out any old way? Have some behavior!” After
scolding him in a stage whisper, she said to me in a normal voice,
“Missy, how are we this morning?” So it was morning, then. As she
waddled toward my bed I shrank back into the hard mattress. She
took my arm and checked the IV needle stuck in the bend of it. Clear
liquid dripped from the plastic bag hanging on the metal stand,
going down a skinny plastic tube into my arm via the needle into my
vein. It looked just like on TV, I remember thinking.
“Doctor is on his way,” she said. She put a blood pressure cuff
around my arm and pushed some buttons. I lost interest and looked
back toward the wall as she took my temperature and pulse. The
machine beeped, squeezed my arm, beeped again, and relaxed. I
didn't watch as she unwrapped the cuff. I kept my face to the wall
until she said, “Why would a nice young girl like you, with so much
to live for, try to take your own life? That would be such a loss. You
are so beautiful.” Her tone was kind and sympathetic. I turned just
enough to see her face. She had relaxed and wasn't looking so stiff
anymore. There was a spark in her eye. “You know who can help you
with those feelings?”
I shook my head. She leaned in. “Jesus can help you, dear heart.
Just call his precious name. Jesus…” She closed her eyes and started
to pray for me right there. I wasn't offended. On the contrary, it was
kind of nice to have someone express regret that I might have died.
Still, she was a stranger who was also breathing in my face and
making presumptions about my spiritual life. How did she know I
wasn't already calling on Jesus and Mary and Joseph and a wide
variety of saints? I mean, I wasn't. But I could have been. And
wasn't it super unprofessional of her to pray with me? I was a
patient. I was pretty sure there were rules about that kind of thing.
She rambled on for a while, adding a few verses from the Book of
Psalms I recognized from church. I was starting to get hungry when
the doctor arrived.
A tall, skinny old man strode in at the head of the flock of
younger people. He was the only one not wearing a white coat.
Instead, he had on a sharp pinstriped suit. He must have been
boiling in the heat. The nurse muttered a hurried amen, handed
over my medical chart to him, and stood to one side away from the
herd.
From my best recollection, I think he had on a purple tie. If he
wasn't so old, he'd have been handsome. He had a kind face, and
eyes that really saw you, inside. The younger doctors all stared at
him in adoration and hung on his every word while he talked about
me as though I was still unconscious.
“Take the medical history, Smith,” the doctor instructed a junior
attendant with buckteeth. Smith, I presumed, timorously asked
about a thousand questions about my shots, if I'd had measles, if I'd
ever been in hospital or had surgery before. I whispered my
responses, keeping them short and to the point. Some questions,
like what conditions ran in my family, I couldn't answer. “My mom
can tell you,” I said. And it hit me all at once that she wasn't there.
Panic, pure and hot, started to fill my chest. I think the doctor was a
mind reader. He saw my eyes widen and asked the nurse
immediately, “Nurse, where is the patient's mother? Wasn't she
here overnight?” I think he asked so I would know she hadn't left
me there alone, not really.
“Yes, Doctor. She had to go in to work to apply for emergency
leave, she said.” The nurse was back to her stern professional
attitude. I focused on how dotish it seemed that my mother would
have to physically go to the school where she worked to ask for
emergency leave. Wasn't she having an emergency?
“Call me when she returns. We have a lot to talk about.” His
eyes were lasers behind his thick, round tortoiseshell-frame glasses.
“So.” He said nothing else, just looked at me. The junior doctors
were like ghosts standing behind him. My hunger vanished,
replaced by a jittery feeling. I wanted to cry. I was on the verge of
ripping out the IV and making a run for it when he finally spoke
again. “No smartphone, I see? Good. Keep it that way. Social media
is terrible for you. So, young lady. I understand you took some
tablets. Thirty paracetamol. You took them last night? Why?”
I had nothing to say. The tears were quivering behind my lashes
now, but they hadn't yet fallen. My world was a tight bubble of rage,
pain, and shame. I felt dirty and pointless.
“You know that you could have hurt yourself?” I closed my eyes.
Of course I knew. That was the whole point. I would hurt myself
until the pain stopped, forever. The tears squeezed out and ran
down my cheeks but I didn't answer him. How could I explain the
ache I felt inside, the torment that ripped me to pieces when I was
alone? I hate myself. I think I deserve to be dead. The world would
be a better place without me in it. Yeah, right, I could totally tell him
that. He would completely get it.
He waited still.
Stubbornly, I remained silent.
Finally he said kindly, “We will keep you under observation for a
few days. The medication you took can cause permanent organ
damage, so we'll watch to make sure that didn't happen. I want to
talk to you about why you took the tablets. Did you mean to harm
yourself?”
There it was. The big question. Crazy girl, were you trying to
commit suicide when you swallowed a full bottle of your mother's
painkillers? I opened my teary eyes and darted looks at the doctors
and the ward behind them. Banana Kid leaned forward in his bed.
The nurse raised an eyebrow and pursed her lips. I lay back, closed
my eyes, and pretended to go to sleep. When I wouldn't answer any
more questions, the doctor talked quietly to the nurse before
touching my shoulder. “She's going to give you some medicine,” he
said, and left. From behind my closed eyelids, I heard him being
followed by the cloud of younger doctors. The nurse remained and
fiddled with my drip. Then she, too, left me alone and I drifted off.
—
I woke up again when Cynthia roughly shook me awake. My mouth
was gross and my teeth were fuzzy when I yawned. My hunger was
gone. I didn't feel panic. I didn't feel much of anything. It was as
though I was seeing the world from behind a thick layer of glass.
Saying nothing, my mother handed me a toothbrush, tube of
toothpaste, and bottle of water. Brushing my teeth was the last
thing I wanted to do. But I did it, rinsed my mouth with some of the
water, and spit into the pink plastic bedpan she placed in my lap. I
wiped my mouth with the back of my hand. All that time, I felt dead
inside. What was the point? Didn't I deserve to have filthy teeth and
terrible breath? I was a waste of space anyway. Who cared whether
all my teeth fell out? Who cared if I was dead? Other than the
Christian nurse, that is. I was causing my mother terrible
inconvenience. Yet, somewhere deep down, I was relieved she was
there, even though her face showed exactly how much patience she
had with this new development. Suicide attempt. Great.
Someone had left a bland, flabby cheese sandwich and a
lukewarm box of juice on a platter on my bedside table. Mom thrust
it at me. I struggled to eat the tasteless bread. Without warning, my
mother stood and walked away. The nurse waddled over.
“Everything okay, dearie? The sandwich all right?”
“Yes, thank you,” I choked out, swallowing painfully. I hoped the
nurse wasn't going to pray again. I just wanted her to go away. I
grabbed for the juice box and stuck the straw in, immediately
sucking up a mouthful of tepid orange juice to avoid saying
anything further.
“Mummy went to see Doctor,” she said. “He gave you some
medication, so he has to explain it to her, what the different tablets
are for and how you have to take them. You might have to take
some for a long time. Some people take them for their whole lives.
You can't drink alcohol with these tablets, missy, don't forget. You
could have a bad reaction.”
Alcohol? I was fourteen! Who did she think I was? Of course, I
knew kids my age drank. I just wasn't one of them. Not that I told
her that. Not that I told her anything. I just wanted all of this to
stop, to go back to sleep for a long, long time. I put down the halfeaten sandwich and half-drunk juice and reclined on the hard
mattress. If I never woke up again that would be awesome. I don't
know when I fell asleep, but I did.
—
It was the doctor who roused me next. “Hello there. How's your
throat?”
I sat up. “How did you know—”
“You were throwing up a lot. It's normal when you overdose on
medication. Any other pain or discomfort?”
I shook my head, starting to notice my body, which felt really
relaxed. I wasn't nervous or worried. It was as though my feelings
were put away in a box for now. When I lifted my hand, though, it
was heavy. The doctor noticed.
“Let's talk about your medication. We treated you for the
overdose, to make sure there's no damage. So far, you are okay.
I also put you on two drugs you will have to take for a while, a few
months at least. One of them helps you to relax. It might make you
sleepy. Don't worry,” he assured me, “this is going to be all right.
The medication will start helping you to feel better. Meanwhile, we
need to figure out what's behind your depression.”
It was the first time I'd heard the word applied to me.
Depression. Was that the monster that crushed me every night?
“Can I ask you some questions about how you've been feeling?”
He went through a questionnaire: Do you sleep too much? Do you
have trouble falling asleep? Do you cry a lot for no reason? Do you
ever feel worthless?
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Do you ever feel like hurting yourself?
Yes.
Do you feel that you would be better off dead?
Yes.
It was the first time I admitted it aloud to an adult. Yes, I
wanted to kill myself. I felt I had nothing to live for. I felt I was a
burden to everyone around me. Yes, I felt I would be better off dead.
We chatted for a long time. I was surprised he didn't judge me.
He didn't tell me I needed Jesus. He didn't tell me there was
something wrong with me, something I needed to fix. He asked
questions and he listened. He told me I was probably experiencing a
major depressive episode, and that the churning feeling in my guts
was anxiety. He told me I had to start sharing my feelings with
other people, and that I had to remember depression and anxiety
tell lies to my brain. He explained the medication. One was an
antidepressant, and one was an antianxietal. One would help me
feel happier, and the other would help me stop worrying so much. I
might have to take them for months, maybe years, he said.
Wonderful. More expense for my mom.
The doctor wasn't a fan of phones. “All that sharing and
friending and liking isn't healthy,” he said. “It's designed to make
people feel bad about themselves. I can't make you do it, but if you
can, stay off social media for a while.”
No problemo. The last thing I wanted to do was communicate
with anyone anyway. I could picture exactly how a conversation
would go: WYD? they'd ask. What am I doing? Oh, I'm in hospital
because I tried to kill myself. Awkward conversation, much? I
deleted everything. Almost everything. For the next week, I kept
checking my phone, so sure that it was vibrating under my pillow
with scared messages from Ki-ki. I couldn't talk to her either, but
knew she'd understand.
I was there for a week. Banana Kid never stopped trying to make
conversation. I never engaged. Honestly, he was annoying AF. The
larger reason I ignored him, though, was that I was sorting out how
I felt after surviving my suicide attempt. I still had moments when I
hated myself as strongly as ever. In those moments I was ashamed I
couldn't even get suicide right. But every day I woke up feeling
slightly better. I was cautiously glad I wasn't dead. I looked forward
to talking to the doctor every morning, although when he passed on
rounds, he always had his young flock behind him. He gave them
pop quizzes on diagnosing and treating depression and anxiety in
teens, using me as the case study. I was a guinea pig. I liked the
doctor but I did not like having my private business used as a
teaching tool.
The day before the doctor discharged me, he came to my room
while my mom was there. After some pleasantries, he said,
“Mummy, your daughter's struggling. She doesn't like school. She
said she's not good at it. She feels like she doesn't fit in, and like she
has no friends. Do you think that's a true reflection of her
experience?”
Cynthia said nothing. She was an expert in the silent treatment.
I had learned from a master.
He tried another direction. “How are things at home? How is
your relationship?”
My mother's face was a closed door. “Fine,” she said tersely.
“Any arguing? Disruptive behavior? Does she stop talking for
days? Harm herself at home?”
Cynthia shook her head, no. She would never admit to a
stranger that she had raised anything less than a perfectly behaved
teenager. “I never saw anything out of the ordinary,” she lied,
brushing all my problems under a rug and slamming the door to the
room shut. Her voice was so cold you could have crushed it to make
a snow cone. I could see how much she disapproved of me. I wanted
to curl up and disappear. Her disappointment was clear to me
behind those frozen eyes. In spite of my new medication I felt a hot,
hard mass start to burn in my stomach.
The doctor told her to supervise me at home for a few weeks, if
possible. How? I wondered. She has a job. Would she have to take
more time off to stay with me? “I am making arrangements,” she
told him coldly.
He handed her a letter in an envelope. “This is a referral to a
counselor. It's important for her to start therapy as soon as
possible.”
I was on a plane to Canada two weeks later.
I cried all night after the Tacos and Tequila Incident. Then I stopped
crying for a while but I wouldn't eat anything. And then I ate some
crackers but I wouldn't talk. It felt as though I didn't sleep at all. I
wallowed in my self-loathing and my terror of the world outside of
my bed. There was nothing I could do but feel pitiful and hate
everything about myself—and hate myself even more for feeling the
way I did. Every few hours I heard that bubbling, babbling ringtone
—it was Akilah, but I just couldn't face answering it. Just the
thought of talking to anybody made me cry again even harder.
Jillian and Julie begged me to go with them to see Dr. Khan at
his office but I couldn't imagine leaving my bed, let alone the house.
At the end of the second day, Jillian brought the mountain to
Muhammad, walking him to my room and leaving us alone
together.
Dr. Khan's round, friendly face usually made me smile, but not
today. I was sad, deep down in a dark hole where nobody could
follow.
“Hello,” he said softly when he entered the bedroom. “Jillian
tells me you're not doing well. What's happening?”
I turned my back to him and stared at the wall. It had worked at
the hospital and…Yes! Score! It worked again. Eventually, he left
and told my aunt he'd come back another day. I had a feeling I could
no longer convince him I'd be fine with just my meds, as I had when
I'd seen him last month at his office. I sensed that a therapist was in
my future.
I heard Dr. Khan give Aunt Jillian some sleeping pills (for me,
not for her, though I can't imagine she was getting much rest,
between my caterwauling and the sheer worry she must have felt)
and tell her to keep an eye on me. Since I'd already proven that I
was capable of taking an overdose, Jillian kept track of my meds and
doled them out to me as prescribed. The new sleeping pills knocked
me out for hours at a time. From what I remember, I didn't think
about anything much in between bouts of sleep. I mostly lay around
feeling wretched, feeling a sharp, inner agony that I couldn't touch
or see but which was nonetheless like a gaping wound somewhere
inside of me. I did want to die; that I remember. Death was the only
thing I felt would stop the pain of my existence. Like turning out a
light. Snap. Done.
—
Akilah called again when I was awake one time. I picked up.
“Oh my God, I've been so worried! Are you okay?” Akilah's panic
showed on her face and in her voice. She was frantic. “You didn't go
and do anything to hurt yourself—?”
I groaned an apology to her. Tears trembled in my eyes. “I'm
alive. But I can't talk, okay? I'm sorry.” And I hung up on my very
best and only friend. Which made me feel so bad I started to panic
again. What was wrong with me? Why couldn't I just be normal?
Tears, snat, anguish. Lather, rinse, repeat.
—
Julie and Jillian took turns sitting with me practically around the
clock. I would fall asleep with my head in Julie's lap and wake up in
Jillian's arms, hardly knowing one hour from another. I had never
felt so wretched.
—
When Dr. Khan returned, I grumbled that house calls cost a fortune,
and he said he didn't usually make house calls at all. “I know what
it's like to be a new immigrant. It can be really scary. Everything's
big and strange. And it all moves so fast.” He added, “I don't make
this exception for everybody, though. Jillian and I go way back.
You're important to her and I want to help her support you. She
didn't want you to go back to a hospital so soon after your recent
stay.”
First: Immigrant? Whaaaat? But I brushed that aside. I'd obsess
about it later, I was sure. For now there were other details to
unpick. Until he'd mentioned it, I hadn't even thought about a
house call as a big deal. And hospital? It never crossed my addled
mind once. Then it hit me like a full-on Cobra Kai roundhouse kick
how terrified Jillian and Julie must have been that I would have
tried to kill myself again. It was true, though, I had had a Classic
Nervous Breakdown. Again. This time I actually felt relieved I
hadn't died, as much as I had wanted to be dead when the dreaded
canyon yawned in my belly. I was alive and I was…happy to be
alive? Maybe not quite happy to be alive, but at least sort of happy I
wasn't dead. It was a lot to process. I wouldn't let Jillian leave,
gripping her hand like I did in the bathroom during the Tacos and
Tequila Incident. Stay, please, I begged with my eyes. She smiled
and squeezed my fingers to let me know she understood, and that
she would stay. Julie leaned against the doorframe, looking elegant
despite the fretful look on her face.
“What do you think led to this panic attack?” Dr. Khan asked
baldly. He'd been so careful when we last met. I realized he'd
decided to try another tactic.
“Was it…because of the boy?” Julie nervously prompted.
This whole episode wasn't really anything to do with Josh or his
dad. Yes, it was the awfully uncomfortable dinner that proved to be
the tipping point, but honestly, it could have been anything pushing
me over the edge. That afternoon, I should have known that
something was up. I knew I was feeling sadder and more hopeless
and scared than I had been since coming to Edmonton, and the
awkward dinner somehow, in my tangled reasoning, seemed to be
all my fault.
Dr. Khan smiled at me hopefully, waiting for me to say some of
those things out loud. At first, I couldn't. Though I had been under
Dr. Khan's care since I had been in Edmonton, he had never seen
me crash. In our first long appointment he asked me stuff I
recognized from sessions I'd had with the doctor in Trinidad.
Usually Dr. Khan didn't push me. He talked more than I did,
because I didn't say much in our sessions. This time he asked a lot
of questions. Like, a lot. And he refused to let me avoid them.
I kept glancing over at Jillian and Julie. My mother had
responded very coldly to this part of everything when I was in
hospital, making me feel as though my whole existence was
inadequate and that I was only making things harder for her as a
single mom. But Jillian and Julie didn't react like that. They looked
worried while the doctor asked the first few questions—not worried
I'd say something to embarrass them, but worried that I was so
unwell. It was all new to me. I wanted to see how they would react
to my answers. Dr. Khan finally asked me, “Do you want them to
stay or are you going to work with me today, really work?”
I sighed. It was scary. But if the alternative was that disgusting
hell of the last couple of days, then…“Okay. They can leave. Thanks,
Aunties.”
They both said you're welcome at the same time. They grinned a
little and ducked out of the room to give us some privacy, holding
each other's hands on the way.
“Tell me what's been going on,” Dr. Khan said. He was not as
formal as my first psychiatrist at the hospital in Trinidad, and talked
to me like I figured a big brother would, if I had one. “Are you taking
the meds I prescribed?”
I nodded. I finally talked, in a low, shaky voice. “I do everything
you said to do, Doctor. I take the medicine. I exercise. I try not to
worry about things I can't control. But I don't know. Sometimes I
just feel…You ever spin around really fast with a water balloon and
then let it go? I feel like that.”
“Like the person spinning?”
“No. Like the balloon. I'm so scared. And when I get scared I get
mad. And then I get sad because I'm so scared and mad and I can't
do anything about any of it. It makes me…” I slumped forward,
dropping my chin to my chest, and wrapped my arms around my
middle to hold back some of the pain that threatened to surge.
“Oh.” He sighed. “Antidepressants don't work overnight,” Dr.
Khan said, telling me what I already knew. “They take weeks to be
absorbed into your system.” In my case, he explained, the
medication I had been on since my troubles began took about three
weeks to take effect, and as long as two months to really work. “You
feel the meds have been helping? Do you feel better or worse now
than when you came to Edmonton?”
“Kind of better? They help me not feel so sad. Sometimes.”
Sometimes I still felt like I had the Grand Canyon in my belly, but
to be honest those times had been getting further and further apart
until the Classic Nervous Breakdown.
“Your going out, walking, swimming, and going to the gym also
help,” he said. “Jillian told me all about your busy days.”
I had no idea they knew or cared what I did every day. I told
them about my activities, but neither of them made a big deal out of
it. They just let me be. “I read that it's good for you to try to do stuff
when you're depressed.”
“Yup,” Dr. Khan said. “Depression and its close buddy anxiety
are mental illnesses, but they have physical aspects as well. Most
people don't realize how much exercise can help.”
After I left the hospital, I'd done a lot of Googling of depression
and anxiety. I learned that plenty of teens and even some little kids
suffered with depression, even though adults might question what
they could be depressed about. I knew that part of the cause of my
problem was my brain chemistry. People who have depression don't
make enough of this brain chemical called serotonin, which
scientists think helps make you happy. The most popular kind of
antidepressant helps your brain build up more serotonin so you feel
happier. But your brain also makes serotonin (and other feel-good
chemicals) when you exercise and avoid stress, when you're hugged,
and from sunshine. I can't honestly say if I had been feeling better
because of the medication or because I was out of my horrible
school and away from my judgy mother. I was walking and
swimming in that weak-ass Canadian sunshine, and getting plenty
of hugs from Jillian and Julie. And still, for the past few days the
paralyzing pain and self-hatred had come back as strong as ever.
For as long as I could remember, my anxiety kept me up at
night. I would worry about failing at school, every stupid thing I had
ever said, global warming, my mother, the father I never knew. Fear
would steal my dreams, gnawing at my guts and closing up my
throat. Akilah told me that I worried for nothing, but her words
meant little to me and certainly didn't help me sleep when I was
staring up at the ceiling in the middle of the night. When they first
gave me the medication for my anxiety it made me doze, which was
great for my sleeplessness. As the weeks went on, though, it was
less and less effective. This meant my nightly vigil over all the bad
things, real or imagined, had started up again about two weeks
before the Tacos and Tequila Incident.
“Kiddo, you worry too much,” Dr. Khan said. “Really. Remind
yourself that worrying won't change anything. Do what you can do,
and the rest is out of your hands, and that's okay.”
“I'm so dumb,” I muttered.
“And please,” he begged, looking me straight in the eye,
“remember what I told you about being gentle with yourself. Give
yourself a break. You're a good, valuable person. And you're not
dumb.”
Dr. Khan and I talked for about twenty-five minutes, with him
doing most of the talking. He wrapped up when Jillian came back to
the doorway trying not to look concerned.
“We're done for today, but are you writing in your journal?”
I nodded.
“But you know,” he said to me in a gentle voice, “you have to see
a therapist. I don't usually do this type of talk therapy, I told you.”
“But—” I tried to resist, but both he and Jillian gave me such
stern looks that my protestations crumbled. I guessed I would have
to consider talk therapy with someone else after all. Soon, I
promised them. Yeah, right.
He talked to Julie and Jillian in the corridor outside my room
for another few minutes about what to expect. I could hear him.
“She'll be very quiet, probably, and might take some time to get back
on her feet. Don't push her to do too much, but don't baby her
either. She's sick but not physically helpless. Try to coax her out of
bed and even out of the house. She should not be on her own for a
little while, until the suicidal thoughts subside. Encourage her to
exercise. Once someone's with her, she should be fine. And make
that appointment ASAP.”
“I'm on it,” Julie chirped. “Booked an appointment in three
weeks….”
My stomach heaved. I'd have to do that stupid questionnaire
with another doctor? Dig up all that crap about my mom? Tell yet
another person what a waste of space I felt I was? Yuck, yuck, yuck.
“What about having people over? We were going to have a
barbecue next weekend,” Jillian said. “We were going to cancel it.”
“Nah,” Dr. Khan said. My heart dropped. I'd have to see people?
Why, oh why? “She has to find ways to cope with her condition
within a family. If she finds it gets to be too much, she can retreat to
her room. Don't force her. Encourage her to remember that other
people can be fun to be around. You might want to tell your friends
to give her a lot of space. Just say she's a moody teenager; they'll
give her a wide berth.”
Jillian walked him to the front door. Julie came to me and sat
on my bed, holding my hand. I was able to have a conversation for
the first time in days. Talking to Dr. Khan had helped, in the end.
But I felt so embarrassed about the way I had cried, the way I had
felt, and the trouble I'd caused over the past few days.
“I'm really sorry about this,” I muttered to her.
“Oh, muffin,” she said. “Don't worry about it. We knew this
might happen. We're here to support you. Whatever you need.”
“Yeah. But it's so…” I didn't know what to say. I felt ashamed of
how I had behaved, even though I knew that I really didn't have any
choice about it. Clinical depression and anxiety disorders have
minds of their own.
“Hey. Don't worry about it,” repeated Julie with a firmness I
seldom heard in her sweetly musical voice. “What do you want for
dinner?”
I shrugged. While talking to Dr. Khan had helped, making
decisions still felt like one of the hardest things.
“Curry?”
“Uh. Yeah,” I said. Julie's chicken curry was amazing. And she
made it with basmati rice and about six different side vegetables,
each served in a little silver bowl. My favorite was dal, warm yellow
split peas made into a puree. All that cooking should have taken
hours and hours, but Julie somehow did it in two. Jillian returned
and Julie slipped out to start dinner. In moments I smelled the
wonderful aromas of frying garlic and geera, or to Canadian Aunty
Julie, cumin.
Jillian was looking at me with a little half-smile.
“Chickie! You had us really scared for a while.”
“Yeah, I'm sorry,” I repeated. “I'm too much trouble.”
“Nonsense! We love you. And we knew you were dealing with
this when we invited you to stay here,” she said, echoing what Julie
had said. I think they had worked out a spiel in advance.
“Want to go outside?”
I shook my head. I had no idea what day it was or what time it
was but I knew that it had been quite some time since my last bath.
I felt sticky and dirty and could feel a layer of grit on my teeth. I
smelled like old, wet dog. “Think I'll take a shower.”
She smiled encouragingly, helped me up, and led me to the
bathroom. She sat on the edge of the bathtub while I reached into
the medicine cabinet for toothpaste. The floss and mouthwash
looked lonely on the now barren shelves. There wasn't a single razor
or bottle of pills in sight. I felt a little contempt for myself. What
kind of person puts their family through this? Why shouldn't they
hate me? I am useless. But then I saw Jillian's dark eyes looking
back at mine in the mirror. There was no hate in them. There was
only love. She seemed glad to sit there and keep me company.
I brushed my teeth. My aunt moved to lean on the sink while I
had a shower. My back hurt from lying in bed so long. I washed my
hair and body slowly, with shaking hands. I dried off with the towel
Jillian held out for me.
In my room I pulled on some clean clothes and sat on the edge
of my bed for a while next to Jillian, both of us silent. By then the
house was full of the pungent smell of curry and the aromatic scent
of basmati rice.
I suddenly realized that my last meal had been the barely eaten
chicken at Tacos and Tequila. Remembering that reminded me that
I had had my freak-out session in the presence of the Cute Boy, the
best-looking boy I had ever seen in my entire life, who miraculously
seemed to be interested in me! I groaned and hid my face in a
pillow. Jillian put her hand on my shoulder and rubbed it lightly, no
doubt gearing up to deal with another meltdown.
“Don't worry,” I said, my voice muffled by the pillow. “I'm not
going to trip off. I was just remembering how I messed up in front
of—”
I gulped my last words down. “What?” Jillian asked.
“Nothing,” I lied, and then got up and we went outside to the
deck. The tubs of summer flowers in the backyard seemed way too
bright after my seeing nothing but blank walls and bed linen for
days. There was a light breeze blowing. The flowers bobbed their
heads in the rustic-looking planters. A few leaves blew off the
neighbor's maple tree, falling on the neat, green lawn. I picked up a
rake and went to gather the stray leaves. When I'd pulled them into
a little pile, Jillian and I sat on the patio chairs and just watched the
dancing flowers. My hands were still shaking.
After a while, Julie joined us. “Dinner's almost done,” she said,
wiping her hands on a paper towel. Dropping an absentminded kiss
on the top of Jillian's head, she took a seat next to us. “What do you
want to do tomorrow?” she asked me.
“Dunno,” I said.
“Swimming or gym?” Jillian said, mindful of the doctor's words
about exercise.
“Gym, I guess,” I said after a minute, thinking of my comfy new
sneakers.
“We should take turns taking her around,” Julie suggested to
Jillian. “I'll take her tomorrow, you could do the next day.”
“Don't you think I should take her out first?” Jillian responded.
“Um, hello?” I said. “I am sitting right here.” Julie looked
abashed, but only a little bit. “Besides, it doesn't matter. I'll be okay
with either one of you.” People fighting over me wasn't something I
was accustomed to, but I could get used to it.
Julie beamed at me. I didn't say it out loud, but what I meant
was that she was equally as important to me as Jillian—who looked
at me with a big grin when she caught on.
“Well, look at us,” Jillian said. “One big happy.”
Maybe not happy, not yet. But one big something, for sure.
Jillian and I were in the kitchen when the phone rang. Since hardly
anybody ever called other than Cynthia, we knew what that ringring sound probably meant.
“Hello, yeah?” I said when I picked up.
“ ‘Hello, yeah?' Is that how you answer the phone?” Her voice
was sharp. My mother was irritated at my lack of whatever, blah,
blah, blah. As usual. You suck, kid. I wish you were a better
daughter.
“Sorry,” I grumbled. “Hello, Mom. How are you?”
“Fine. Still trying to catch up on work. You know those people,
always putting paperwork on my desk in a complete state and I have
to do everything….”
I zoned out. When she called my name for the third time I came
back to myself with a snap. “Yes, Mummy?”
“Let me talk to your aunt. You clearly have nothing useful
to say.”
My face burned. Without a word more I handed the phone over
to Jillian. My aunt watched me with a frown. I couldn't tell if she
was pissed at me or her sister. Probably me.
A little voice in my head chimed in with Dr. Khan's reminder to
say nice things about myself. Okay, okay. Maybe Jillian was
annoyed at her sister, not at me.
“Cynthia! How are you?!”
Jillian was always nice on the phone with my mom. They were
sisters, after all. They had been close once, really close, before
Jillian left Trinidad.
“Oh, things are going well….” She told Mom about her new
contract, leaving out the LGBTQ connection. My family was full of
things better left unsaid.
“Oh, she's doing great.” She threw me a look. “Cynthia, I don't
want you to panic, but she had a little setback.
“Small. But yes, a breakdown.
“Four days.
“No, she didn't go to the hospital.
“But—
“Yes, she saw a doctor.
“Cynthia, lis—
“Cynthia! Listen to me. She's okay. No, you don't need to come.
She's doing much better now. It was last week and the doctor has
seen her. She's doing fine now,” she repeated.
At that point I drifted back to my room. I had heard all I wanted
to hear. Obviously my mother was going to try to convince Aunty
Jillian to send me back to Trinidad. I hoped Jillian would stand up
to her.
Minutes or hours could have gone by as I thought of how I'd
have to leave Edmonton and everyone and everything in it. I was
lying on my back, staring up at the plain white ceiling, when my
aunt came in.
“Well, that was hard,” she announced. I didn't reply. “Hey,
sport.” She held my chin and turned my head to look at her.
“Am I going back?” It was all I wanted to know.
She looked surprised. “No! I told her you were fine, didn't you
hear me?”
I snorted. “As if she listens to anybody.”
“She listens to me. I'm her big sister, you know! I told her you
were in good hands. Am I right or am I right?”
Reluctantly I smiled. “You're right.”
“Scooch over,” she said, lying on the bed next to me and taking
my icy hand.
“Cold hands, warm heart,” she intoned, a relic from her
childhood that I, too, knew from my own. In a lot of ways, things
hadn't changed in the Caribbean since she was a girl. “Baby, you're
going to stay here until you're ready to go home. Don't worry about
your mom, okay? I'll handle her.”
Little tears started slipping from the corners of my eyes. “I never
want to go back home.”
“You will, one day. But right now you can just stay here until
you feel ready. Don't worry. You'll be my little girl until then. And
this can be your home.”
I buried my head in her shoulder and cried.
After a while my sobbing stopped. I wiped my face with the back
of my hand and just lay there smelling her spicy, warm perfume. I
sniffed. “What's that you're wearing?”
“Patchouli. It's an herbal perfume. Very hippie-dippy,” she said,
winking and grinning.
“Are you a hippie?”
The grin stretched farther. “Nah, just a good environmentalist.
Nobody does animal testing for patchouli,” she explained. “Like any
good lesbian I have to believe in a cause.”
The way she said it was funny but I could tell she was partly
serious.
“What does that mean?”
“Well, I was joking,” she said, resting her cheek on my head.
“It's a thing people say about gay people. That we identify with
causes—animal rights, the environment, homeless people,
immigrant rights, the poor.” She thought about it for a second. “I
guess, because we know what it's like to be in the minority and the
underclass. We know what it's like to have no voice so we try to
speak for others who don't either.”
I digested that for a while. “What's it like?”
“Patchouli?” she asked, pretending to be serious. “Okay, okay,”
she giggled as I pinched her arm. “What do you want to know?”
“Well…what's it like being…you know. Gay.”
“I don't know what it's like being anything else, so that's a really
hard question for me to answer. It's just normal for me. What's it
like being straight?”
I shrugged. “I dunno. Normal, I guess.”
“See what I mean? But I do feel sometimes—not so much
anymore, but I used to feel like I wished I were like you and like
Cynthia. I do want babies and a ‘normal' life. So it's kind of weird
not having those things, but I couldn't really imagine myself any
other way.”
“Did you ever have a boyfriend?”
“Yup. Did you forget I told you Nathan and I dated? Way before
I knew I was gay. We stayed friends, though. And Josh is my
godchild, as you know. I wish I saw more of him. Sweet kid. Josh, I
mean, not Nate. Nate's a pain in the—”
We laughed at the same time. I was glad she shared my opinion
of Nathan. He was arrogant and self-centered and I didn't like him
one bit.
“Was he always like that?”
“A jerk?”
I nodded.
“Uh-huh. He grew up very privileged and I suppose he never had
to think about other people. He likes ‘exotics' because they give him
a glimpse into the other side but—” She shook her head. “Why am I
having this conversation with a fourteen-year-old?”
“ 'Cause I asked?”
We laughed again.
“Are you an ‘exotic'?” I asked.
“Yup. So are you, to people like him. You'll meet lots of people
here who think that you're some kind of collector's item just
because you have a Caribbean accent and dark skin.”
I already had. I thought about the young policeman who tried to
talk to me at the bus stop, and others I had met at the library and
the gym. “White people are always surprised that I speak English
and wear normal clothes and stuff,” I said. Then I thought about
Julie's version of “normal,” the clothes she called “Desi high
fashion,” and reconsidered my language. “Western clothes, I mean.”
“Right. Not everybody's like that but some people are. Nathan
married a Jamaican, that's Josh's mom, and I think Nate was always
surprised that she was brighter and better educated than he was.”
I chuckled.
“But Josh seems like a good kid,” she repeated. She looked slyly
at me. “What do you think about him?”
I blushed and bit my bottom lip. If the earth had opened up
right at that moment it would have been awesome.
“Ooh! Looks like somebody has a crush!”
“Aunty!”
“Oh, all right. I'll stop teasing. I have to give you fair warning,
though: I'm inviting them over to the barbecue.”
“Not the barbecue!” I said in dismay. Maybe it wasn't too late for
them to change their minds. Alas, they were following the doctor's
advice and taking life back to its ordinary level. I didn't have to
participate, my aunt told me, but I'd be expected to come out of my
room and say hello at least once. Hesitantly, I agreed. “But don't
tease me about the boy, okay? It makes me feel bad.”
“Agreed,” she said. No teasing, but I had to get ready to talk to
the most gorgeous boy I had ever seen, in my temporary home. This
time, I hoped I could do it without having a complete collapse.
I called Akilah as soon as Jillian closed the door.
“Ki-ki!” I wailed.
“What? Are you okay?” She had obviously prepared herself for
the worst. It had been ages since I had talked to her. She looked
scared, her eyes open wide and her mouth trembling. “I was so
worried!”
After apologizing for ghosting her, I calmed her down and told
her about the awful past week, the sleeping pills that knocked me
out, Dr. Khan and his advice to exercise and his threat—um, I mean
promise—that I would seriously start talk therapy soon.
“Why are you hating on therapy so much?” Akilah asked.
I was scared of what the therapist would say when I told her or
him about my deepest secrets. When normal people hear that you
want to kill yourself, they treat you like you're crazy. But when
you're crushed under that monster and you can't breathe for the
pain, nothing makes more sense than wanting to die and make the
pain stop. Talking about it was almost as scary as feeling the feeling
itself. “I just don't want to. Julie's already made the appointment,” I
wailed. I was being dramatic, but it was a front for real fear.
She sat at her kitchen table. Her mom was cutting up vegetables
in the background; I heard the rapid whack of a blade on a chopping
board and could imagine the kitchen redolent with pungent chadon
beni, the dark green leafy weed we use for seasoning food in
Trinidad. A wave of homesickness hit me. There were so many
things I wanted to say but didn't want Aunty Patsy hearing. And top
of the list was the gorgeous kid, Josh. Gesticulating to Akilah that
she should leave the kitchen had no effect. I typed in the message
bar, GO TO YR ROOM!!! WE HAVE TO TALK!!!!
journal session 4
I think about color a lot. Even more now that I live in Edmonton,
since the color of my skin marks me as different from most of the
city's population. When I was walking down the street, I would be
one of a handful of black faces in a sea of white; there's more salt
than pepper here, if you know what I mean.
Home home, brown skin is the norm. Most of the people who
live in my country have either African or Indian ancestors. Walk
through downtown San Fernando, my hometown, and you'll see a
spectrum of complexions ranging from palest ochre to darkest
ebony. It's beautiful to me. As a child I took it for granted; my world
was full of brown people, people who looked like me. They lived
next door, loaned me books at the library, drove the buses I rode,
read the news on TV, and ran my government. I hardly ever saw
white people in real life. On TV sitcoms, yeah, all the time. But not
doing ordinary stuff like taking out the garbage. Here, white people
were my neighbors, my librarians, my bus drivers, the news
anchors, the city council, even the garbage men.
Being black in a black country doesn't mean race isn't
important, though. I grew up accustomed to people referring to me
by the color of my skin: I was a dark-skinned girl. Not just me,
either; so-and-so was a red-skinned lady; so-and-so was a brownskinned fellah. I had a neighbor everyone called Blacks because his
skin was so dark. Nobody said it out loud but skin color mattered.
The lighter your skin, the more desirable you were for a job, for
anything really. A light-skinned mixed-race girlfriend with long,
wavy hair was the gold standard if you were a boy, no matter your
race. Girls freaked out over light-skinned boys—“red man”—as
though they were some kind of prize. Even Ki-ki said her
grandmother wanted her to marry someone who would “add some
milk to the coffee” and give her light-skinned grandchildren one
day.
As a bony, dark-skinned girl with short, kinky hair, I felt I was
nobody's first pick. Matchstick. Charcoal. Bun-bun. Those were
some of the nicknames the other kids called me. My personal fave
was Corbeau, after the pitch-black vultures that lived on garbage
and dead dogs in the dump. In my primary-school graduation class
photo I was a dark, unsmiling smudge with huge eyes, hiding in the
back row behind the lighter, smiling faces.
When I told Akilah the Cute Boy was light-skinned, she
screamed. “You? I can't believe you have a crush on a red man!” I
rolled my eyes at that. I didn't like him because he was light. He was
super cute. Like super. Cute. And taller than me (how rare was
that?!). Besides, I had never had a crush on anybody at all, red man
or not. When I told her Josh's skin color, describing it as caramel
brown, she laughed at me. “He making you not only thirsty, but
hungry, too! Caramel?” I knew she was only teasing but I seriously
thought about what she said. Why not say caramel? I'm the color of
dark cocoa. She was the color of milk chocolate. It wasn't my fault
all the good colors for brown happened to be named after food.
Besides, I've read stories where white people were called “olive” or
“peaches and cream.” Those are food, too, right?
Josh was smart and cute and so cool. He was a catch; there
could be teenage girls all over Brooklyn swooning for him. Though
Ki-ki always told me I was pretty, I never believed her. If a dark,
skinny girl with picky hair was pretty, why weren't there more
people like me at home home in the advertisements on TV? Pale
Indian faces adorned billboards for skin lightening cream,
Bollywood movies, and rum. Light-skinned mixed-race people sold
pretty much everything else, from car batteries to rum. (Everybody
sold rum.) I have to admit they put a lot of dark-skinned soca
singers on billboards. I liked Fay-Ann best of all. She had short hair,
even shorter than mine!
My hair was another thing. It was never long to begin with, and
the tightness of its curl made it seem even shorter. Every time she
combed it, Cynthia wished out loud that I would straighten it like
she did hers, and save her the ordeal of putting her hands through
the thick coils. Every couple of months she herself went to the
beauty salon and paid a lot of money for her hairdresser to put a
chemical paste into her hair to take the kink out of it. The cream
smelled like old pee and burned her scalp, leaving painful sores that
scabbed over the next day, but when she walked out of the salon she
had straight hair that swished past her shoulders, for a while, at
least. When I turned twelve she asked me if I wanted to do the same
to mine. I said no. She couldn't understand why. The first week of
the third term of school, right after Easter, I took a pair of paper
scissors from my pencil case and cut my hair off. I don't know why.
I ketch a vaps, like we say home home. School had been agony that
day; maybe that was it. At lunchtime I could barely stop myself from
running into traffic if only I could make a dash past the security
guards at the gate. At home, finally alone and away from all the
noise of my school, I looked into the mirror and saw my picky hair.
It was all I could see. Not my clear skin or my big black eyes or my
full lips or my high cheekbones. I saw only the hair my mother
hated. It filled me with frustration. I didn't pause before I started to
snip. Mom was blue with rage when she saw me standing in my
bedroom with that little heap of black plaits at my feet. She marched
me straight to the barbershop to get my hair evened out, because of
course it was an awful cut, patchy and rough. I got a long lecture
about making the best of my looks, and that included what little
hair I had left. A woman's hair was her glory, she said again and
again. When it grew out enough, she said, I would get a weave. I sat
in that barbershop chair, hearing the buzz of electric clippers and
feeling the sting of the alcohol the barber sprayed on the back of my
neck when he was done, thinking I would never want to stick
someone else's hair into my own. Why should I? There was nothing
wrong with my own hair, was there? And if there was something
wrong with my hair, was there also something wrong with me?
The morning of the barbecue was crisp and clear. Julie was up
early, mixing meat, mushrooms, and onions into a slurry that, she
assured me, would turn into the most delicious hamburgers I'd ever
tasted. Jillian was out buying charcoal and paper cups and I was
assigned to rake the lawn, clean the bathrooms, and put out fresh
towels. I also had to change the sheets on the pullout sofa bed, in
case anyone stayed over afterward.
It was about ten in the morning when I finished my chores and
gave a thought to the fact that I had absolutely nothing to wear.
Yeah, I had T-shirts, jeans, shirts. But nothing in my wardrobe was
an outfit I considered worthy of the occasion. It had to be
something really special.
“Uh, Julie?” I said weakly.
“Sugar? What's up?” She was, by this time, vacuuming the living
room. She switched off the vacuum cleaner and looked at me
expectantly.
“I have…I have nothing to wear.”
Jillian chose that moment to walk in. She screeched. I wasn't
sure whether she was horrified that she was related to me, or
thrilled that I was finally showing interest in something except the
color and texture of the ceiling paint.
“That's wonderful!” Julie yelled.
Jillian dropped her bags by the kitchen door and hurried out to
the living room. “Oh, baby!” I was engulfed in a spicy patchouli hug.
“Let's go immediately. We can pick up some things at the mall in a
hurry.” She turned to Julie. “You have—”
Julie waved us off with a huge grin. “Go before the child
changes her mind.”
Jillian and I got into the car and sped to the mall in record time.
I didn't have a chance to stress out before she practically dragged
me into a store called Sweet Harts, which had half-naked
mannequins all over showing legs and boobs and bellies and butts
to an alarming degree. I never would have expected her to choose
this store, and not these clothes, given the way she dressed herself.
Then I remembered seeing pictures of her the way she used to look
in her teens, before she left Trinidad. She was pretty and girlish and
prone to frills. A lot of pink eyeshadow too.
“Uh, Aunty,” I called out.
She didn't hear me. She had a tube top in one hand and a
miniskirt in the other and was sizing me up with a glance that made
me feel a little afraid.
“Aunty! I don't think this is my speed,” I said more firmly.
Her face fell. I was wearing a plain black T-shirt, black joggers,
and Birkenstocks. While I wasn't ready to meet the most gorgeous
boy in the world looking like that, I sure wasn't going to see him
with my so-called boobs and tiny butt hanging out.
“Of course, baby,” she said, ruefully putting the clothes back on
their hangers and turning for the exit.
Outside of the shop, I spotted another store. Regular jeans and
shirts were on the mannequins in this window.
“What if we try this one?” I said.
We walked around in there and still there wasn't anything I
liked. Nothing screamed This Is What to Wear in Case You Lime
with the Most Gorgeous Boy in the World.
We tried a third store and finally hit the jackpot. It was a soft
lilac dress; Aunt Jillian said it had cap sleeves and an empire
waistline, falling in an A-line skirt just below my knees. It wasn't
too girly-girl but it wasn't severe, either. Against my dark skin it
looked divine. The Birkenstocks didn't look so hot with it, though.
And the socks definitely had to go.
“We need to get you some sandals. I mean nice sandals,” she
said, grimacing at the ones I had on. They were comfy and practical
but not exactly cute.
I got some white sandals with low heels. They fit okay, though
not as comfortably as the clunky Birkenstocks. But these sandals
were adorable. They made my toes look long and elegant, I noted
with pride and some awe. Jillian was so excited about the whole
ensemble I didn't have the heart to tell her I planned to wear the
dress over a pair of skinny jeans. On the way out we passed a kiosk
with cosmetics. I lagged behind, throwing meaningful glances at the
makeup, and Jillian gave in with mock exasperation. A tube of lip
gloss later, we were out in the car and speeding back home so we
could keep preparing.
—
People started coming over at about two in the afternoon. Jillian
fired up the big grill on the deck in the warm sunshine and Julie laid
out some chips and salads while the meat sizzled. By four o'clock
the place was full. A blur of faces passed me by. I stuck to the living
room, playing DJ with Jillian's old iPad and an aux cord connecting
it to the stereo system. I was reading the track list on a Prince
greatest hits collection when I heard a husky voice say hello.
I jumped about a foot.
Josh was wearing a white T-shirt and black skinny jeans
strategically ripped at the knees. He had on a bandanna, too, tied
like a headband. And a thick gold chain. Really? He looked like a
young thug. I was a little disappointed. The boys I knew at home
who dressed like that usually had nothing to say except dumb things
they picked up off of hip-hop and dancehall music, stuff they didn't
really understand the meaning of but mindlessly repeated after they
heard it in some song. And they had really limited tastes. His next
words, therefore, came as a complete surprise to me.
“Oh, snap! Is that a greatest hits? See if it has ‘I Wanna Be Your
Lover' on it. Oh, man. That is the baddest love song ever. RIP to the
Artist.”
“RIP,” I murmured back. I was thinking that I didn't know if I
agreed with him on that song's position as the greatest love song
ever. In fact, I think I definitely disagreed with him. But who would
have thought that he would know the works of my favorite singer?
Not me. I was thrilled.
Okay, maybe Prince wasn't my very favorite singer. But he was
up there with the top ones.
“You like Prince?”
“Oh, yeah. No doubt. He was the best musician of his time, bar
none,” he said, stooping to my level, literally if not metaphorically.
Taking the tablet from me, he read off the titles on the album's
track list. “You gotta run this track!” he said, pointing to ‘When
Doves Cry' on the list. “I have loved this since I was a kid watching
that old movie with my mom. We do it every year.”
Hmm. You never know about people from just looking at them.
I must have looked at him funny because he suddenly got selfconscious. “What? It's my moms, yo,” he muttered.
“Uh. Nothing.”
“Okay. Hey, nice to see you by the way.”
Zing! Pow! Pop! That was my heart exploding, if you didn't get
it. I mumbled something in response, too busy blushing to be able
to actually speak. For once, I wasn't completely freaked out by the
possibility that I was saying or doing the wrong thing. I had a huge
smile on my face. My heart was bucking like a rodeo bull but
gradually it calmed itself. As we played the music, the funky falsetto
took away my nervousness. Track followed track and we were
perfectly chill with letting them play on shuffle. In about twenty
minutes we said maybe five words to each other, but it was a
friendly kind of silence. I was about as relaxed as ever when my
aunt came in with Nathan.
“You kids having fun? Can we get something other than Prince
now?”
“One more song,” Josh and I said at the very same time,
breaking into laughter as we said it.
“One more!” Nathan sighed. “There must be something else you
guys can agree on.”
“How about this?” Josh, who had been riffling through her
music library, highlighted Santana's Supernatural. I raised one
eyebrow and nodded approvingly. He had good taste in music as far
as I was concerned. But I wasn't entirely convinced; could be he was
making the best of a bad situation and didn't really like this stuff. It
was just that the most recent dancehall Jillian had in her library was
some Super Cat circa 1990, and as for hip-hop, The Miseducation of
Lauryn Hill was the most up-to-date of the lot. Her tastes ranged to
the old and romantic, rather than the young and urban. She had a
lot of folk and jazz music, some calypso, and, of course, Bob Marley,
which was practically a prerequisite for any music collection. But
the stuff that I listened to at home—Rihanna, Beyoncé, Drake,
Popcaan, Kendrick Lamar, Machel Montano, Bunji Garlin—was
conspicuously absent from Jillian's iPad.
I seemed to be wrong in my judgment of Josh's tastes. He
continued to pull stuff out that gave further lie to his gangsta
uniform. The Beatles; Simon & Garfunkel; Earth, Wind & Fire; and
Parliament-Funkadelic joined Santana in a growing playlist. His
sparkling gray-green eyes squinted in concentration as he checked
more music out. I got to my feet and stretched. “Hey, want some
sweetdrink?” I asked.
“Huh?”
“Soda. Pop. Want some?”
“Yeah, sure. Coke, if you have it. What did you call it?”
“Sweetdrink. It's what my mom always calls it. It's a Trini thing.
You wouldn't understand.”
“Sure I would,” he scoffed. “Unnu nah recognize me a fi 'alf
Jamaican, mon?” It was a pretty bad accent but he seemed proud of
it. If his mom lived in the States, it wasn't a stretch to consider that
he'd probably never seen Jamaica.
“Riiiight,” I said. “Let me get that Coke.”
Julie was in the kitchen, wearing an apron that said “Kiss the
cook,” so I did.
“You're in a good mood,” she observed as I poured two glasses of
soda.
Santana's old duet with Rob Thomas, “Smooth,” came on. “Uhhuh, I sure am! We're playing back-in-times music,” I said as I did a
little three-step.
Julie grimaced in fake agony. “Is this considered ‘back in times'
already? God, I'm old. How are the burgers?” There was a tall stack
of them next to her. Red meat wasn't a big mover that afternoon; all
the bean patties and other vegan stuff were gone already. I grinned
in response, licking my lips hungrily at the perfectly cooked meat
nestled in fresh, soft buns. I gathered up a paper plate of three along
with the drinks. It was a precarious arrangement. As soon as Josh
saw me carrying the wobbling freight, he sprang to his feet and took
the plate and a glass from me.
“Hope you eat beef,” I told him over his thanks. I settled next to
him on the couch and bit into my sandwich. Burger juice spurted
out and spattered on my lap, right on my new dress. “Oh, man!” I
whined. Now I'd have to change it. And of course, I had nothing else
to wear.
“Oh, come on, it's just a little spot,” he said, whipping off his
bandanna and dabbing at the stain. It was cute. I was blushing so
hard I was nearly glowing. He unfolded the bandanna and draped it
on my lap like a napkin. “So you don't mess up your nice outfit
anymore,” he added.
He thought my outfit was nice? Yay!
We listened to more music, talking little, and ate some chips
and salsa. By nine o'clock his dad came around again, a glass of wine
in hand. Nathan was pretty drunk, by the sound of it. He slurred his
words a lot and took much longer than usual to finish his sentences.
“Looks like I'm spending the night here,” Josh said. “Hope your
couch is comfortable.”
The way he said it made me feel he had been in this position
before, but I didn't want to ask. I didn't have to, as it turned out.
“He's drunk a lot these days. He's breaking up with his
girlfriend.” He shook his head. “Man, you must be so glad your
aunts are in a stable relationship.”
I nodded, rendered mute for the moment. Hearing the words
coming from his mouth made me feel a bit surreal. These aren't
things we talk about at home home. I thought that, at home, Jillian
and Julie would have probably passed as just close friends or
roommates. And no matter how drunk somebody's dad was, they
never would have said a word about it.
“It sucks that my dad is in this up-and-down thing. I never know
if she's going to be at the apartment when I get home or not. Some
vacation.”
“I'm sorry. That sounds like it sucks.”
“Yeah,” Josh agreed, “it kind of sucks. I only get to see him once
a year and he doesn't realize that he's wasting our two months
together by being drunk all the time.”
“Your dad has been drunk every day since you've been here?” I
asked, incredulous. That sounded a bit intense.
“Well,” he considered, “maybe not every day. But often. At least
he doesn't get violent or anything, just…so boring. I have to hear
about every girlfriend he ever had when he gets into it,” he said with
a little laugh, shaking his head. “Your aunt was the one that got
away.” He paused, passing his hands idly through his curly hair and
momentarily distracting me from our very serious conversation.
“How do you like living with your aunts, anyway? Julie told us the
other night that you might be moving here permanently.”
My heart skipped a beat. I might be moving here permanently?
That was news to me. But there had been Dr. Khan's “immigrant”
comment. I shoved the thought aside for the moment. It was too
distracting. Instead I focused on answering his question. “I don't
know. I like it a lot, I guess. But I'm not in school, and it's not like
real life yet, you know? I don't have any friends here.”
I paused. Mentally I added that I didn't have any friends at
home either. I just had nothing in common with most of the kids I
knew. That started me worrying that I was weird, and that Josh
would never want to hang out with me under normal circumstances,
say if we weren't the only teenagers trapped together at my aunts'
barbecue. Akilah was the only one I could talk to without feeling
like a complete extraterrestrial.
As if she had heard her name called in my mind half a world
away, the bubbling ringtone began.
“What is that noise?” Josh asked. “Wait, is that Skype? My dad
uses that!”
I grabbed the phone, excused myself, and took the call in the
bathroom.
The first thing I did when I answered was to shriek silently.
Akilah saw me freaking out and was immediately worried. “What?
What? What?”
“Relax,” I said. “It's just that I'm. With. The. Cute. Boy.”
“What!!!”
“Oh my God, you have to meet him. Ki-ki! Help me! I don't
know what to say! I'm so dumb and awkward. What if he—”
Akilah interrupted my rant right there. “Come on, remember
you're supposed to say positive things about yourself. You're not
dumb. Awkward, yes. But that's where I come in. Let's go meet your
man,” she teased. I shot her a look, but took the phone back to the
living room and introduced Akilah to Josh, turning the screen so he
could see her and she could see him.
“Hey, nice to meet you,” he said in that very velvety voice.
“Could you please explain why you don't just WhatsApp like regular
people?”
“She turned off all her social apps,” Akilah said without any
further explanation. “She only has Skype.” When I turned the phone
back to myself Akilah's expression showed that she was very
impressed with Josh, very impressed indeed. She gave me two
thumbs up. I made a monkey face like a child, sticking out my
tongue and waggling it enthusiastically.
“What?” Josh asked, grinning but obviously puzzled. I guess
monkey face is not a good look for me. Darn it.
“Babes, it's really loud over there,” Akilah complained, shifting
attention from my doctor-recommended-social-media-hermit
situation.
“Can we go to your room or something?” Josh suggested.
Decamping, we left the adults to the mercy of Jillian's iTunes. I
led the way to my little bedroom. It was perfectly tidy and I was glad
I hadn't left the contents of my closet out on the bed after my
earlier flap about what to wear. We sat on the floor, backs against
the bed. I held the phone up so both Josh and I could see Akilah.
“So,” she said, breaking the silence, “how did you guys meet?”
Josh told her the story. He left out the part about how I got sick
in the middle of dinner. She already knew about it, though. “I'm
glad my dad is friends with your aunts,” he concluded, chuckling.
Which reminded me. “I really need to talk about my situation
with Julie and Jillian. They are great, but I'm still not used to them
as a couple,” I confessed to Josh and Akilah.
“Country bookie to the bone!” Akilah said.
“Like a country bumpkin,” I jumped in and translated for Josh
because, from the look on his face, he was clearly confused by the
Trinidadian expression.
“Josh,” Akilah continued, “to be honest, where we come from
you never see a gay couple. And if you do, you'll never see them
show PDA. There are places where that will earn you and your lover
a beatdown.”
“True?” he murmured. “I hear things like that about Jamaica
but we never go there.”
“For reals. Can I tell you something?” I asked. He glanced up at
me with those stunning eyes. I melted a little inside but then
steeled myself to continue to talk about my living situation. “It's
great. They're great. But I just don't know how to feel about them
being…well, you know.”
He raised an eyebrow and lifted his palms in puzzlement.
I sighed. “You know. Gay.” I said it low, spat it out like a bad
word.
Akilah cackled on her end of the phone call. “You can say the
word, chile! I know you can! Say it loud, say it proud!”
We all laughed, and then Josh said, “You can say ‘gay.' Kids I
know say ‘queer' sometimes. It doesn't change who people are, if
they're gay or straight. I mean, yeah it does, but a good person is a
good person. You know what I mean? Folks are just folks.”
“That's easy for you to say. Where I'm from, you just don't call
people that word unless it's a joke or an insult. Nobody's out as gay.
I can't think of one single gay couple at home, not even like a
celebrity couple. I don't know. People just hide it. For me this is…”
With my hands I mimed my head exploding. We all laughed again.
“It's not important, trust me.” He looked over at me
meaningfully. “Can I tell you something?”
I nodded.
“My mom has had a boyfriend but when I was little she had a
girlfriend. Some of the times she seemed the happiest were with her
girlfriend, I think. Being gay or bi or whatever doesn't change who
she is or how she treats me. That's the important thing: your aunts
love you, don't they? And they show it.” He looked frustrated, and
fiddled with his own phone as he talked. “I just wish my dad was
more…caring. Sounds dumb, coming from a guy, right?”
“Are you gay?” Akilah joked lamely.
He glared. “That's not funny.”
“Yeah, I know. Sorry.” She looked abashed. He grinned and
waved it away. I liked him even more.
Josh and Nathan weren't the only ones staying overnight. A couple
of other people did too. Most of the adults stayed up late into the
night, taking over the living room, drinking wine or coffee and
watching movies. Some ended up sleeping on the carpet, and some
on the sofa.
We talked to Akilah for hours. Josh had music on his phone and
I had a Bluetooth speaker so we listened to songs on that. It was
mostly hip-hop and dancehall, but there was some rock music in
there too. Akilah ratted me out, telling him that I was an old fan of
Justin Bieber and he said he understood and liked me anyway. My
heart sang.
“What about your school?” Akilah asked him.
“What about it? It's normal. You know.”
“Well, actually, I don't. Remember I live in Trinidad. School
here is much different from what I see on American TV.”
He laughed out loud. “School everywhere is different from what
you see on American TV. Nobody looks that good.”
I refrained from pointing out that he looked like a super-cute
extra on The Vampire Diaries.
He continued, “I'm going to be a senior at Audre Lorde Charter
School.”
“Where's that?” Akilah was asking all the questions I wanted to
ask but was too shy to speak out loud.
“Oh, in New York.”
“Duh,” she said. We cracked up again.
“Brooklyn, to be specific. Close to where my mom and I live. It's
okay, I guess. I'm doing a bunch of pre-pre-law stuff, like about the
constitution and society, for extra credit. I'm applying to Columbia
and I want to go to law school there eventually….But I don't know if
I'm going to transfer and spend my senior year up here with my dad
before college.” He turned those hazel eyes on me. “What about
you?”
“I'm in third form, which is like”—I did some quick math in my
head—“about ninth grade?”
“You're that young?” he said, surprised. “Thought you were
about sixteen.”
I ducked my head. “Nah. Fifteen in two months. I'm kind of tall
for my age.”
“You can say that again! How tall are you?”
“A little under six foot,” I said.
“With that height and your looks, how come you're not a model?
If you lived in New York you would have been spotted by now.”
“I know, right?” Akilah yelled. “She's so pretty and she doesn't
even know it.”
“Oh, please,” I said.
“No, seriously. You're really pretty,” Josh repeated Akilah's
assurances.
I turned away, scoffing, “Blah, blah, blah.” A boy had never
called me pretty before. Tall, skinny, dark girls with short hair didn't
get called pretty at my school. Mostly they got called “black and
ugly.”
Josh was baffled. “Tell me you're kidding,” he said. I said
nothing.
Akilah sucked her teeth. “I've been telling her that forever but
she never believes me.”
“Okay, but don't say I didn't tell her so.” He let it drop and
turned back to me. “Tell me about your school.”
“Well,” I said, “I do boring stuff. English, Spanish, social studies,
integrated science, geography. It's coed. The boys do electrical stuff
and woodwork and the girls do sewing and cooking. We could do it
vice versa but nobody really encourages you to do that, so we stick
with tradition. It's not considered a good school but it's okay. I
mean, it's kind of rough.”
“Kind of?” Akilah jumped in. “With some guys selling weed
behind the technical block, and some girls getting into fights…they
stab each other over boyfriends and stuff.”
“Fights…like with knives?” he asked.
“Yeah. It's rough. But it could be worse: they could have guns,”
Akilah said, deadpan.
“It's okay, it's not that bad,” I said, desperate to stop talking
about it.
“Wow. Why don't your parents transfer you to a different
school?”
“Parent,” I corrected. “My mom's a single parent. Never had a
dad.” He nodded but didn't say anything, waiting for me to continue.
“And with school, well, it's not that easy to move kids around from
school to school,” I said. “There's this assessment exam you have to
do to get into a high school and I failed.”
“You didn't fail!” Akilah squawked.
“Okay, true, I didn't fail. I just didn't do well enough to go to a
great school. My mom thinks I should live with the consequences of
my actions.” I did a good imitation of my mother's serious voice as I
put bunny ears around the words she had so often said. Bitter much,
kiddo? I asked myself.
“So she'd rather you went to a school you didn't like, where
there are drug dealers and violent gangs, so you could live with the
consequence of your actions? Sounds crazy,” he said.
When he said it like that, I had to agree with him. But I had to
stick up for my mom. “She means well.”
“Besides,” said Akilah, “those schools are where the majority of
kids end up in our country. It's normal.”
“Uh-huh.” He didn't sound convinced.
“It's not that serious,” I said, trying to be casual. “Can we talk
about what you heard from your dad? That I might be here
permanently?”
Akilah gasped. “Oh no! You have to come home!”
“Yuck,” I said, gagging dramatically. “I hate that place.”
“No, you don't,” she rejoined.
“What is there to like?” I said. “Oh yeah, I can't wait to get back
to my tropical paradise. All we ever hear about is how many
murders and kidnappings we have every year.”
“Really?” Josh was shocked.
“Yeah,” Akilah reluctantly agreed. “Crime is terrible. As a girl
nobody wants you out at night by yourself. They say you could get
kidnapped, sold into the sex trade.”
“For real?” His widened eyes were joined by a gaping mouth.
“Or how about the truly loveable public utilities?” I grumbled.
“We get power outages…how often, Ki-ki?”
“Once a month, maybe,” she allowed.
“Wow. When the lights go out in New York it makes the news,”
Josh said.
“And let's not talk about water.”
“What do you mean, water?” Josh asked.
Akilah fielded that one. “You know how you open the tap and
water comes out when you pay your bill? Well, where we come
from, most of the country doesn't get water when it opens its taps.
Not every day, anyway. It's rationed.”
“Tuesdays and Saturdays,” I added. “That's when we get water.
All the rest of the week we have to use water from our tanks.”
“And what if your tanks are empty?” Josh asked.
“Salt,” Akilah said.
“ ‘Salt'?”
“Yeah. Salt. Nothing, zip, zilch, nada,” Akilah said. “You can use
the toilet at the mall.”
He shuddered. “It isn't that bad; you're exaggerating.”
“I wish,” Akilah replied. “It can be really awful here, compared
to some places. But it's beautiful, too,” she chided me. “Come on,
admit it!”
“Well,” I said, “the hills are kind of spectacular. And the people
are great. Sometimes.”
“When they're not trying to beat up gay people?” Josh asked
sardonically. “Your country sounds lovely. I can't imagine why you'd
ever leave.”
“But it's home, you know?” Akilah said. “Your home isn't perfect
either. I mean New York is the most dangerous city in the world!”
“No it isn't,” I muttered.
“Whatever,” she said with a sigh of exasperation. “My point is
that whatever is wrong with it, it's my home. I won't leave. This is
where I belong.”
I thought about that for a second. Was it where I belonged?
Josh changed the topic. “My mom sounds like the opposite of
your mom. She's really overprotective of me. I had to go to the best
school—it's public but a charter school, which is like a private public
school….It's hard to explain,” he ended, looking at my befuddled
expression. “Whatever. It's a good school, no knives—or guns. But
like I said, I really want to spend some time with my dad before I
start college.”
“Have you ever lived with him before?” I asked.
“Yeah, when I was a baby, I guess,” Josh said, picking at
imaginary lint on his jeans. “But I don't remember much about that.
I mostly know him from spending summers in Canada. I see him
every year. It's hard because I live in the States and he lives all the
way up here. This place is like the boonies, man. And it's sooooo
white!”
“For reals!” I chimed in. For a few minutes he and I traded tales
about Trinidad and Brooklyn. At home we'd be just faces in the
crowd—in Josh's case a gorgeous face in the crowd. We of the brown
skin stuck out in Edmonton.
“It's nice to get a break from my mom, too.” He bit his lip,
hesitating, before he spoke again. “She's depressed and it's like,
every day is a drama just getting her to eat breakfast and take a
shower. Sometimes.” He quickly added, as if he didn't want to be
disloyal to her even in her absence, “I love her a lot, you know? But
it's kind of tough to be around her twenty-four-seven.”
I turned it over in my mind for all of two seconds before I
jumped to his mom's defense—a woman I'd never met. “I'm sure
she's trying her best. Depression isn't easy to cope with.”
“Yeah, it's tough. But she makes it harder. She doesn't go to her
therapist, she drinks too much sometimes, she skips taking her
meds other times. She's a great mom but I just wish she'd realize
that all that stuff—the medication, the therapy, yoga—is actually
good for her, and not just something we're forcing her to do because
we hate her.”
In San Fernando, Akilah's mother yelled at her for being on the
phone too long. She made her apologies and promised to Skype me
again the next day before signing off.
Josh and I continued to talk about his mom. “So what's she
taking?” I asked. “Some of the medication can have awful side
effects, you know. It can make you fat, sleepy, dopey.”
“Uh-huh, I know,” he muttered, looking at me strangely. “She's
on Prozac. She says it messes with her sex drive. How come you
know so much about this?”
“How come you think?” I asked darkly.
“Oh snap! You too?”
I nodded, without looking at him. I didn't want to see the look
on his face. I didn't want to see him judging me.
“Hey,” he said, awkwardly but gently, “it's cool. I mean…it's
cool.”
I snuck a glance at him. “For reals?”
“Yeah,” he said, a small smile on his sweet lips.
Not only was he cute and smart, but he had great taste in music
and he was understanding, too.
“At least you think so. People at home would never understand.
If it ever came out in school that I had attempted suicide, that I was
clinically depressed and living with a chronic mental illness, I would
be persecuted relentlessly,” I confided. “Where I come from a lot of
people think mental illness is either demon possession or deliberate
bad behavior.”
“Are you serious?”
“Yeah,” I said. “My own mom…she thinks I'm just being
overdramatic.”
My mother's attitude was, sadly, typical. I could count on one
finger the number of people who would be understanding and
sympathetic to someone with a mental illness. And did Akilah really
count in this equation? She was a kid like me. She couldn't protect
me.
“You really tried to kill yourself, though? How come? What
happened?”
I told him the short, ugly story, ending with my brief
hospitalization before Cynthia passed me over to her sister. “When
it's bad, I really hate myself,” I said. “I don't know why. I just want
to die. Like I shouldn't be alive. Like I don't deserve it.”
He looked at the door, not at me, shaking his head. “Word. I feel
you. You sound like my mom. It's not true, though. You do deserve
to live.” His hazel eyes turned to me. I felt like I was in a sniper's
crosshairs. “If you ask me, I'm pretty glad you're alive.”
If he was the shooter, I was happy to be hunted. Game. Over.
We talked a bit more, listening to some of his music too. He was
deeply into trap, the strange, hectic hip-hop music from the
southern US. I knew some trap songs, the ones that had made it to
the radio at home. “Oh, I like this one: ‘Baking soda! I got baking
soda!' ” I sang along. But I wasn't really a fan. He played his
favorites and explained what the songs were about—many were
about selling drugs.
“I don't get it,” I finally admitted.
“Word,” he said, grinning. “You don't have to. We can like
different things and still be cool.” I fiddled with my fingers. He took
one of my hands in his. “Are you nervous?”
My heart was in my throat. Josh's hands were warm, soft,
strong. Next to his light brown skin mine seemed extra dark. I didn't
know what to do. Should I sit there with my hand limp? Should I
touch him with my other hand? What should I do?
Akilah and I had strategized about this on our last call. She had
raised the possibility that he might try to kiss me. I had wanted to
dismiss it completely but she had insisted. If someone likes you, no
matter where they are from, she said, they're going to try to kiss you
if you two are alone. Her advice was to “be natural.” Since I'd never
kissed a boy (or a girl, for that matter), I had no idea what “natural”
looked like in this context. My heartbeat raced like tassa drumming.
Weakly I tried to pull my hand from Joshua's grasp but he held
on, stood up, and gave me a tug, pulling me over to sit on the bed as
he did the same. We faced each other with our legs folded like yogis,
his sneakers taken off long ago and parked by the bedroom door,
and my sandals tossed beside them. Those hazel eyes pinning me
down. He leaned toward me and I could smell his cologne, fresh and
breezy, and his breath, minty from the gum we had chewed after
finishing our burgers. I closed my eyes.
His lips barely, delicately touched mine.
And then the door swung open. “Oops!” Nathan chortled, more
amused than apologetic for barging in on us at this key moment.
“Sorry to interrupt! Josh, I just wanted to let you know we are
definitely staying the night.”
Hastily pulling away from each other, Josh and I dropped our
hands into our laps and looked at Nathan innocently.
“Sure, Dad,” Joshua mumbled.
“Hey, no funny stuff, okay?” Nathan teased his son, stepping
into the room and ruffling his curls. “I know she's beautiful, but you
have to let her get to know you first, son,” he teased. I could tell he
was drunk, but under the slurred words and cloud of alcohol fumes
I could also tell there was a spark of parental concern. “These island
girls will break your heart.” Nathan theatrically winked at me before
stumbling out of the room again. Gross.
Our moment was over. The music played on. I stayed seated on
the bed and he slid back to the floor. We faced one another. Before
long, both of us lay down, head to foot, he on the carpet, me with
one arm trailing off the side of the bed fiddling with the comforter.
It was chill. There were no words between us as we listened to
songs. Physically, we were farther apart than before…but by the
time I fell asleep we were holding hands.
—
I woke up the next morning with a crusty feeling in my mouth and a
great big smile on my face. Josh's curly hair was just visible under a
drift of blankets on the floor next to my bed. Through the open door
I heard the blessed sound of silence. I was evidently the first up.
Or maybe not. I heard the sound of water running in the kitchen
and bet myself that Julie was cleaning the mess left over from the
party.
Climbing over Josh's inert body, I crept out to get a glass of juice
from the fridge. As I suspected, Julie was scrubbing away at the
counters, getting rid of a vicious maroon stain next to the sink.
“Bloody red wine,” she muttered as I walked in. “Hey, muffin.
How was your little party?” she asked with a tiny smirk.
I blushed. “Oh, it wasn't like that,” I started to explain.
She laughed, swatting me with a damp tea towel. “I should hope
not! I was kidding, honey. I'm glad you're making a friend. I was
worried that you'd never talk to anybody outside this family ever
again.” Her teasing smile was gentle. I felt happy and excited and
couldn't wait to tell her about the whole thing.
“We just played music. Talked. He's really nice,” I said. I wanted
to explain more, about how easy he was to talk to, how he
understood about my depression. How we sort of kissed. Almost.
But the words were caught up in my chest and wouldn't come out.
Instead, I mumbled again, “He's really nice.”
Her smile told me she understood.
I poured some juice and drank it, feeling my stomach beginning
to rumble with hunger. I glanced at the clock on the microwave and
was surprised to see it was after eight already.
“If I were back home I would have been in church by now,
starting Mass,” I told Julie. “Mom insists we go to church every
week, and I don't even know why. It's not as though she's all that
devout.”
“Maybe she likes the routine of it?” Julie asked. “The
predictability? Could be nostalgia, too. Every time I go to a puja I
feel like I'm a little girl, safely back at my aji's house in Toronto. We
cling to rituals, don't we? Humans are funny.”
I could kind of understand some of what she said; I liked
familiar routines, too. But I didn't see the point of going to church if
you didn't want to be a real Christian and were doing it only for
form's sake. Or for memories. My memories of church were one
long blur of boredom and skepticism. A God might exist. Did he
need to be worshipped and adored or was that our shtick? It seemed
like a waste of time—but maybe that was just me. I shrugged.
I was still standing in front of the fridge. I opened the door and
stared, trying to figure out what was quick and easy for me to have
for breakfast.
“Here,” said Julie, reaching around me to grab a stack of cheese
slices from the dairy compartment and a bag of English muffins
from a packed shelf. “I'll toast one for you.”
“Thanks. Julie, can I ask you something about Jillian?” I was
finally ready to ask about that conversation I'd overheard, when
Jillian said she wished she was my mom instead of Cynthia.
She responded with a cautious nod. “But really if you have
something you want to know you should ask Jillian herself. She
won't bite,” she teased.
I opened my mouth to ask the question and flaked. I shoved the
muffin there instead. I wasn't ready for this conversation.
I ate the crisp, warm bread with melted cheese, mulling over
what she had said when Josh's dad came in, wearing a T-shirt and
boxers. He was stretching and yawning and scratching, looking like
a man from a movie, obviously hungover. If I wasn't sure before, I
was convinced then that I didn't like him much. How such a boor
could have made such a considerate son was beyond me.
“Morning, ladies,” he said, in between huge yawns that smelled
of sour liquor. “Julie, what has your niece done with my son?”
I said good morning and looked intently at the fridge and shoved
more into my mouth so I wouldn't have to say anything else. While
they talked I took the opportunity to go use the bathroom, washing
my face and brushing my teeth and generally trying to look slightly
less jacked up than I had when I crawled out of bed.
I needn't have worried. Josh was still fast asleep when I tiptoed
back into the bedroom. In fact, he slept until nearly noon. His dad
woke him right before they were to drive back home. He only had
time to give me a quick hug, squeezing my hand and promising, “I'll
Skype you,” before leaving with his dad. I thought I'd probably see
him again soon. I hoped I would, anyway.
—
When Akilah called that evening, we did an exhaustive analysis of
the whole three-way conversation, and then further discussed every
second of the almost-kiss and the hand-holding that followed it. We
agreed we'd have to wait until the next time I saw Josh to make
further judgments. But she thought it was a great sign he was going
to install Skype on his phone just to message me. I still hadn't
turned any of my social media accounts back on. It took him
another day, but eventually I heard from him: Sup. Miss u.
Immediately, I formed a group chat with him and Akilah.
—
That week drifted by with me staying mostly at home listening to
music, watching movies from Jillian's enormous collection, and
surfing the net. I toyed with the idea of starting a new Instagram
account, but then changed my mind. I wasn't ready yet to do
anything so public. The idea of anybody crawling through my
pictures and making comments filled me with terror. Instead I
contented myself with obsessively watching BuzzFeed videos on
YouTube. Josh and I messaged each other briefly every night.
Nothing serious, just about movies we'd watched and music we'd
listened to that day. Slowly we were getting to know each other.
Emphasis on “slowly.” But I held on to the memory of the way we
had almost kissed, and the tingly feeling of my skin on his when we
held hands.
I was at peace, starting to feel like the world wasn't such a bad
place. I saw Dr. Khan and I was starting to get the hang of writing in
my therapy journal.
Then my mom called again. From the airport in Toronto. She
was coming to Edmonton. She was almost here.
journal session 5
Dr. Khan keeps pestering me to talk more about my mother.
What else is there to say? I don't know. Dr. Khan said to just
start writing about her in my journal and see where it takes me, so
here I go.
Cynthia gave birth to me fourteen years ago. She was sixteen;
she finished her O-Levels with a baby bump. I have a picture of her
when she was fifteen, and one of her with me at my christening, but
there's nothing from when she was pregnant. I don't know my
father. There aren't any pictures of him either. I don't know how
they met, or even who he was. My birth certificate is blank under
“Father's Name.”
That doesn't bother me as much as Ki-ki thinks it should.
Everybody has a dad, she says. Yeah, of course. Men and women
have sex and that's how you make babies. Duh. Yet women get
pregnant and men don't know about it unless the women tell them.
Cynthia never told me what happened. Sometimes I imagine that
they were childhood sweethearts and he died young. Who knows?
Cynthia sure wasn't talking. She never got married. As far as I knew,
she didn't have boyfriends, either. Sometimes she went on dates
with other singles from church, but nothing ever came of it. Cynthia
wasn't exactly warm and welcoming.
Still, my earliest memory of her is nice. I think I'm looking up at
her from my crib. It's night and she's smiling at me. Maybe it was a
dream.
I grew up with her. We lived in my grandparents' house. It
wasn't a terrible place. My grandfather was a bookkeeper who lived
long enough to know his unwed teenage daughter had disappointed
him by getting pregnant. My grandmother, a housewife, followed
him to the grave when I was six. My memory of Granny Rose is
blurry. She was sick for a long time, since I was a baby. I hardly
remember her, except that she was bedridden and her room was
always dark and smelly. Going to kiss her goodnight was like
entering a haunted house. She would stare at me. It was terrifying.
But in old pictures, she was proud and stern and pretty. Her hair
was a long, shiny plait flowing from below her church hat right
down to her breast. She looked nothing like my mother. We got our
looks from my grandfather's side of the family.
I remember Granny Rose's funeral better than I do her. There
were a lot of flowers. Like, a lot. Plenty of old people smelling of
camphor and rum, singing hymns I didn't know. Plenty of strangers
on the church steps kissing me and telling me how much I looked
like my late grandpa. I remember piling into a big car to go to the
cemetery with my mother, some cousins I didn't know, and Aunty
Jillian. To be honest, I mostly remember Aunty Jillian. She was so
different from my mother, so happy and smiley, even though it was
a funeral and everybody was kind of sad. But I could tell they were
sisters. They talked the same way. And when Aunty Jillian wanted
to, she could make my knees shake with one harsh word just like
my mom could. With Granny Rose dead, they were all the family I
had left. Cynthia didn't make any effort to keep in touch with her
other relatives. She depended on no one but herself.
Cynthia always worked. I spent a lot of time at the library, where
she left me as long as she could from the time I was old enough to
read. She grumbled that her job was boring and that the school that
employed her took her for granted, but she had to do it anyway.
“Everybody has to work to live,” she always said. “Nobody owes you
anything.” Over and over, she said that I had to be responsible for
myself. “You can't rely on anybody else. People will disappoint you.”
That was how she was, and that's what she expected of me. We
didn't talk much at all, not like mothers and daughters in the
movies. We didn't have warm, loving conversations over tea and
biscuits.
I've never seen my mother cry. She's just not the crying type;
she'd quicker hit you than let you see her weak or wounded. I think
part of what she never accepted about my illness was that it seemed
like weakness to her. Mom expected everyone to be able to just deal.
Lonely? Deal with it. Man left you pregnant at sixteen? Deal with it.
Hate your job? Deal with it. Don't break down, don't trip. Just
quietly and efficiently deal with whatever it is that's bothering you.
Deal with it alone and shut up. When I got my period for the first
time, she handed me a pack of tampons and sent me to the
bathroom. I read the instructions and figured it out, eventually.
While Akilah was celebrating getting into the convent school,
I resigned myself to my fate. The school I'd passed for was
infamous: understaffed and with a reputation for student violence.
But I had sat the exam. I had to live with the consequences of my
actions.
I don't blame my mother for my illness. I don't blame her for
sending me away, either. I'm glad she sent me to Canada. I'd tried
my mom's method and I'd still wanted to die. Everybody isn't wired
the same way. Jillian and Julie are the best thing to happen to me.
They let me be myself here.
Though I wanted to go into hiding and never come out, Jillian and
Julie made me go with them to meet my mom.
The airport was a cavernous, frightening place, like a cross
between a market and a supermall. It had a huge, high ceiling, with
ranks of uncomfortable-looking plastic chairs. Nothing was familiar,
even though I had only recently come through there myself.
Everywhere I looked, I saw miserable passengers who seemed like
they were lost dragging enormous suitcases around. They
congregated below the arrivals and departures screens, watching the
lines of information continuously updating. In between, there were
uniformed flight crews pulling smart black carry-on cases on
wheels, striding purposefully from one end of the airport to the
next. Though it was daytime, neon lights lit the book, candy, and
souvenir stores. A stuffed horse made of fluffy, plush fabric called
my name, but I didn't stop to say hello, just threw it a longing look
before trailing after Jillian and Julie to the crowded arrivals hall
where we would greet Mom.
After checking a screen to confirm her flight had arrived, we
squeezed into a spot between a family of four redheads and a
Jamaican couple. I kept looking around for something I could recall
from my own arrival.
“Blurry memory” does not cover it. Try “Good night, Port of
Spain; good morning, Toronto! Good afternoon, Toronto; good
evening, Edmonton!” Probably for the best. I cried myself to sleep
the first few nights at my aunts'. Who knows what that flight would
have been like without the medication to knock me out.
My Edmonton airport memories were vague, but wasn't there a
baggage carousel that snaked out of a hole in the wall, carrying
suitcases and bags? Wasn't there a sound it made? Clang-bumphummmmmm. Maybe. “Remembering your trip here, muffin?”
Julie asked.
Impulsively I said, “Nah. I was thinking about the baggage
carousel. Can I ride on it?”
“No!” Julie chuckled. “Please don't try it. It's dangerous and I'd
have to tackle you. I'm too old to be scrambling around on the
airport floor. So undignified.”
We laughed together. It was easy to be myself around her. I was
comfortable. So comfortable that I had blurted out loud one of the
many random things that crossed my mind from time to time.
Fortunately, I didn't have to worry that I'd disappoint her by saying
something ridiculous. It still felt hard to be completely honest.
However, I tried. It was mortifying to admit it, even to Julie, but
there was a hole in my brain and I couldn't remember arriving in
Edmonton. “I don't remember this airport, Julie. I took a lot of
tranquilizers so I wouldn't freak out on the flight. I was not exactly
in good shape when I traveled, right?”
She stopped laughing. “True,” she agreed. “How are you doing?
All set to see your mom?”
I didn't get a second to answer. My mom must have parachuted
off the plane before it landed. There she was, the first Toronto
arrival, dragging a case behind her.
“Cynthia!” yelled Jillian, pleased as punch to see her sister.
Jillian's last trip home had been ages ago and they hadn't seen each
other since. My trip into exile had been planned over Facebook and
phone calls. We traveled to Port of Spain to the Canadian High
Commission for an interview that was so quick it passed like a
dream. I was out of the hospital one day and in the air soon
afterward, heavily medicated and flying as an unaccompanied minor
to my recovery in Edmonton. I'd had a passport as a form of
identification since I was small, but this was the first time I'd gone
anywhere with it. The single immigration stamp on my passport was
smudged. The maple leaves on its edges as blurry as my memory of
arrival.
Mom was looking really pert and pretty in jeans and a crisp
white shirt. I guess having no child to look after suited her to the
bone. It was all right by me, since being away from her suited me
just fine too.
Her hug was stiff. Our initial conversation was just how I had
pictured it would be:
“How are you?”
“Fine. You?”
“Fine.”
“How is everything at home?”
“Fine.”
It took all of thirty seconds, probably, to run out of things to say
to her. Yes, I was taking my medication. No, I wasn't feeling ill. Yes,
the doctor said I was improving. I loved it here. No, I didn't miss
home. At all, I lied.
I guess she was a bit perturbed that I would come right out and
admit that I was happier in Canada than at home, but she didn't say
anything. I supposed I was in for it later on, though. To my surprise
I felt some anxiety when I saw her, but nothing like the rushing-tomy-doom overwhelming despair that would normally have
accompanied such a meeting just a couple of months ago. In fact, I
could honestly say that I really felt…fine. I hoped it would last.
She had just the one suitcase, which Julie quickly grabbed and
hauled off to the car. We took Mom to lunch at a steakhouse and
she and Jillian made conversation about everything at home. Mom
kept staring at Julie, and I wanted to kick her for making Julie seem
like some kind of freak, but Julie handled it like a pro, neither
ignoring Mom nor pointedly staring back. I felt a bit bad at first, but
as the evening progressed I got more and more infuriated.
It had been about two months since I had seen my mother.
Time had changed us both.
She and Jillian were laughing over some old schoolteacher they
had had when I interrupted without preamble.
“I don't want to go back.”
Julie immediately tried to play it off. “Hey, muffin, we can talk
about that later….”
Mom wasn't having that, though. She engaged immediately.
“It's time for you to get back to your real life. You have to go
back to school. Your place is at home.”
“My real life is in a place where nobody wants me around,
nobody understands me, and nobody really cares if I live or die?” I
asked, the light of challenge sparking in my dark eyes.
My mother was outraged. “What nonsense! What self-indulgent
nonsense! You go on as though you had no friends.”
“I have no friends!” I shouted.
“Don't be ridiculous. What about that girl Anika? Akua? The one
you went to primary school with.”
My jaw dropped. She couldn't remember my only friend's name!
“You don't care about me at all.”
“Of course I care about you! I might not always understand you,
granted, but I always do my best by you, child. How dare you come
with this attitude, these accusations!”
Jillian tried to calm the turbulent waters. “Cynthia, you know
she's just exaggerating. Of course we all know you care about her
and whether she lives or dies. She's not being literal. I think she
means that she doesn't feel accepted for who she is.”
My mother's mouth was a thin, unsmiling line. “Who she is, is
my daughter. Her place is at home, with me. Whether I understand
or accept her or not.”
The waiter came with the bill and Jillian tersely handed him a
credit card before turning back to her little sister. “I really think it's
bigger than that, Cynthia. You have to understand that she's ill.
Without love and acceptance she'll be worse off—”
Mom snorted. “Ill?” Clearly, despite all the doctor had told her
after my pill-popping incident, she wasn't convinced I was actually
sick. As far as she was concerned, depression was some kind of selfinduced and entirely frivolous condition. In other words, I was
probably making all this up. Or rather, I was making all this up to
spite her.
Nothing was further from the truth. But I knew I couldn't
convince Mom over steak and salad. I shut my mouth.
—
The ride back to the house was tense. Over the stiff silence, Jillian
and Julie pointed out landmarks to Mom's stony face, and I
steupsed under my breath a couple of times before Jillian told me to
cut it out. Sucking your teeth to an adult was a no-no here, too, it
seemed. Finally we were home. We pulled into our street just as a
bus roared off in a cloud of hot air. It's the Eighteen, I thought
automatically. That's my bus!
Mom got out of the car with a flounce, and walked around and
stood by the trunk, tapping her foot impatiently. She was in a hurry
to finish the discussion. So was I. Jillian wasn't, though. She eased
the suitcase out of the trunk and up the steps to the front door,
inviting Mom to come in. Julie and Jillian gave her a quick tour,
ending at my bedroom. Although Jillian left Cynthia's suitcase in
my room, my mom would sleep on the foldout living room couch
during her visit—her choice. She could have slept with me in the
guest room. Mom glanced around at the small room, painted a pale
pink, with its white eyelet cotton curtains and comforter and white
furniture. It was a girl's room; it occurred to me for the first time
that Jillian and Julie had probably decorated it for me just before I
got to Edmonton. I could see, from the tightness around her mouth,
that the thought had occurred to my mother at the same time it did
me.
I saw her eyes flicking over the neat room and knew she was
mentally comparing it to my room at home, which was even smaller
and was never this organized. I kept this room tidy because, even
though Jillian was family, I wasn't really home home and didn't
want her to feel put-upon by my presence any more than was
necessary. Somehow I wanted to make the best possible impression,
in spite of everything. I had to rely on myself. My mother, who
knew me from before I was born, would have understood all that
without me saying anything, and I saw something flicker in her eyes
as she took in the room, the neatly stacked books on the night table,
the absence of clothes strewn on the crisply made bed. Even the
floor was clean, with no shoes thrown haphazardly around as they
would have been back home. She looked at me, that same
expression in her eyes, looked back at the room, and walked out
without a word. She could have chosen to be proud of me for finally
learning to pick up after myself. Instead, it seemed, she chose to be
offended that my behaviors had changed here.
It was hours before bedtime and we had yet to talk about the
purpose of her visit: to take me back.
She led the way to the deck while Julie went into the kitchen to
get everyone some cold drinks. It was afternoon, warm and muggy
by Canadian standards, which after two months had suddenly, it
seemed, become my standards. I didn't know how I would cope if I
went back home to the furnace-like heat and ponderously humid
air. My hair, cut so short when I had come, had grown out a bit into
a wiry Afro, sort of like Jillian's, but thicker. I took a hank of the
tight strands and started twirling it between my fingers and thumb,
making little curls that stuck out from my head at right angles. I
could tell from Mom's disdainful look that she didn't appreciate the
aesthetic, but it wasn't meant to be a fashion statement, just
something to do with my hands.
“Have you been keeping up with your schoolwork?” she asked,
checking out the pristine lawn and pretty flowers as she talked.
“Not really,” I admitted. “I go to the library a lot, but mostly I
read whatever I feel like. I am teaching myself French, though,” I
added.
“French?” Frowning, she turned back to me.
“You didn't tell me that,” said Jillian with a surprised grin. “I
could have helped. J'adore le français,” she said, with the requisite
guttural pronunciations.
I saw my mom tighten her mouth, so I changed the subject. “I
bought a dress,” I said. “Want to see it?”
She looked wounded. Too late, I reflected that for years she had
tried to get me to buy a dress of my own accord—with no success
whatever. And now, here, I'd finally done it. Without her.
The afternoon wasn't going well.
Julie came out, as fresh as a breeze of summer flowers, carrying
glasses of lemonade on a tray. She was such a caretaker, it was
almost funny, a real Wilma Flintstone. Not that Jillian was flatfooted Fred to her Wilma, just that Julie was so concerned with
keeping things running clean and smooth. I envied her easy way
with both housekeeping and people. Remembering how she
effortlessly handled Nathan in his caveman wake-up mode, I
admired once again her ability to smooth people's feathers as she
graciously handed my mom her glass of lemonade, doing a little dip
at the knees to keep the tray steady.
“Oh, look at you with your bunny dip,” Jillian teased her.
I was confused. Bunny? Seeing my confusion, Jillian explained.
“Julie used to be a waitress in Toronto for a while at this
gentleman's club—”
“Read: strip club,” interjected Julie.
“—and they taught her how to do something called the ‘bunny
dip' so she could serve drinks without bending over and showing
her cleavage,” Jillian said.
“Yeah, showing cleavage was strictly reserved for the girls on the
poles,” Julie joked.
“The move was invented by the Playboy Bunnies, for their club,”
Jillian explained.
My mother was less and less amused as the moments ticked by.
“You worked in a strip club?” She made it sound like Julie had made
a living selling crack outside a kindergarten or something.
“It was only for a couple of months, when I was an undergrad,”
Julie said. I liked how she said it without tension, as if there was
nothing to be ashamed about. As if it was just a job.
Mom's top lip was curling farther and farther into a sneer.
“Doesn't sound like a great place for a woman to work,” she said.
“Actually,” Julie replied, “it wasn't bad at all. Management was
very strict about customers not being able to touch the employees.
And the tips were great,” she threw in with a wink.
As fascinated as I was by the idea of strip clubs and bunny dips,
I was anxious to get to the meat of the discussion. So was my
mother, apparently, as she cut to the chase first.
“Jillian, it's time for this child to come home with me.”
There were tears in my eyes.
I couldn't help it. I was sad, angry, frustrated, but mostly
horrified at the thought of going home. I just wasn't ready yet to
face the same old places where nobody cared about me, the school
where I didn't feel like I belonged. In any case, hardly anybody tried
to actually teach us anything there; they had given up on us before
we had even started. As a school clerk herself, my mother ought to
have known that but she didn't seem to care much whether I did
well or didn't; whether the school I went to was good, bad, or
indifferent; whether the kids I sat next to in class were going to
grow up to be pharmacists or drug dealers. If she cared, she did an
awful lot not to show it. If she cared, she was awfully good at
pretending otherwise.
It wasn't just the school. I didn't hate it all the time; it was okay
some days. It wasn't anything specific that made me unhappy there.
The teasing didn't happen all the time, and mostly the other kids
left me alone. And it wasn't really my mother. It was the whole
country—the smallness of it—that seemed to close in on me
sometimes. I could understand why some people like Jillian
couldn't really be comfortable living in a small place like that, where
to be gay or lesbian or whatever they wanted was a shameful secret
you could hint at but never discuss, not openly. So to people at
home, Jillian was a spinster. In fact, she was as good as married to
Julie, a woman who was her life partner, with whom she kept a nice
house, and who loved Jillian as much as Jillian loved her. Home
home was full of people like my mother who couldn't separate a
person from their sexual and domestic arrangements—which
weren't really their business anyway—and whose judgment was
flawed regarding anything they couldn't understand. “Different,” to
my mom, meant “unacceptable.”
My eyes started leaking and I could feel my face getting hot and
swollen as I tried to hold in my screaming, boiling rage and
helplessness.
I wanted to tell my mother all these things, but I couldn't. It was
one of the things I had to work on in therapy, I guess, expressing
the feelings I had bottled up inside of me. But that was for another
day. Today, I just wanted to scream.
Jillian's hand was cool around mine. She didn't say anything but
seemed to communicate through touch: It's okay.
I took deep, gulping breaths as the tears rolled slowly down my
hot face. “I don't want to go home,” I said. “I just don't.”
My mother was getting angrier by the second, especially after
Jillian took my hand.
“Child, whether you like it or not, you are coming home with me
when I leave. You have a week to resign yourself to the fact.”
I felt like I did the time I tried to hurt her with a knife. I wanted
to injure her. I didn't have a knife but I had my tongue.
“I hate you! I wish I had died when I took those pills, just so I
wouldn't have to live with you ever again!” I sobbed. And, jerking
my hand from Jillian's cool grasp, I ran to my room and locked the
door.
A few minutes later I heard tapping on my door. From the light
touch I knew it could only be Julie. My mother would have banged
on the door with a clenched fist; Jillian would have tapped louder.
But these taps sounded just like Julie: kind of delicate but not weak.
“Muffin, open the door,” she called.
I was in the midst of my enraged tantrum and couldn't move if I
tried. Over the sobbing and screaming, I could hear her persistent
knocking. After a while I had wound down enough to get up and
open the door to her.
She didn't look happy. “Hey. You going to be okay?”
I nodded, still gulping and weeping.
“Then get out there and apologize to your mother. You've really
hurt her feelings. I know you're sick but that doesn't give you the
excuse to be so rude. I know you're better behaved than what I just
saw.”
I pushed my lips together into a pout my mother called a swellface, turned my back to Julie, and sat down hard on my bed. “She is
so evil,” I sobbed. “She doesn't understand me and she doesn't want
to even try. She'll never let me be happy.”
“Be that as it may,” Julie responded, implacable, “you still can't
talk to your mother any old way. She's your mother and deserves a
measure of respect.”
Stubbornly, and still crying, I sat and looked at the white eyelet
cotton of the comforter on my bed.
“This is not negotiable,” Julie said, as softly and as firmly as she
had knocked on my door.
I stood, not looking at her, and walked out to the deck. Even
before I hit the back door I could hear the raised voices of my
mother and Jillian, tossing angry words back and forth like the
birdie in badminton.
“…my daughter!” screamed my mother.
“…bad mother!” rejoined Jillian.
“…had no choice!” That was Mom.
“…always have a choice!” That was Jillian.
Without hearing all their words, I knew somehow they were
arguing about who was going to keep me. I felt weird, like a toy
being fought over by children on a playground. Their voices dropped
for a second and I took the opportunity to walk into the
conversation.
“I'm sorry, Mom,” I said without preamble.
“You should be. How dare you talk to me like that?” No easy
apology where Cynthia was concerned, no sirree. I had to suffer for
my arrogance.
“I don't know what I was thinking,” I said, but the sarcasm flew
over her head.
“No, I don't think you were thinking at all. You don't talk to me
like that, ever. You understand?”
I nodded. I was starting to cry again. I turned around and went
back into the house, leaving them to their argument. Whoever my
next therapist was, they would have a field day with this episode, I
thought.
“Look, you see how you have her so rude!” my mother accused
Jillian as soon as the door was shut behind me.
“Me!” Jillian sputtered. “She never talk to me so a day in she
life! I never see her get vexed once yet in the two months she
here….”
—
Back in my room, Julie was waiting for me.
“I feel like…like I'm on an auction block and the two of them are
bidding for me with love instead of money,” I said to her. “Who
loves me more.”
Julie carefully weighed her words before replying. “I don't think
it's like that, sweetie. Your mother…well, she has a lot of things to
offer you. This isn't about love, really. It's not in question who could
love you more.”
The cryptic words didn't answer any of the unspoken questions I
had buzzing around inside of me. What did she mean? Was she
saying my mother really didn't love me? That Jillian actually did
love me more? Or was she saying that my mother loved me more
but that love wasn't all that was required to take care of me?
“I don't understand, Julie. What do you mean?”
She sighed and looked troubled. “I think…I think your mom
does love you.”
It was a relief to hear it. I did have my doubts.
“But she is not good at showing her love. It comes out as
criticism. I guess you could blame her family for it, if you had to
blame anybody at all.” She shrugged, shook her head. “I don't know.
I think it was something about how they were raised. When I met
Jillian she was so cold and locked away…it was very hard to get her
to admit her feelings about anything. I think your mom is bad at
showing her emotions. Believe me, Jillian knew nothing about
hugging and saying ‘I love you' when we first met. Thank God, she
learned. Give Cynthia time.”
“Time? She's had me for fourteen years and she still doesn't
love me!”
Julie was firm as she corrected me. “Cynthia does love you. That
much I do know. But you're sick right now, and you need a lot more
attention than Cynthia gives you. I don't know if she even knows
how to give anybody the kind of loving care you need. She
understands duty and responsibility. Love is…hazy for her. She's
just…she's just not wired that way.” She had used exactly the words
I did when I considered my mom and my illness. I was wired
differently than my mom, and that was one of the big obstacles
between us. She would never understand me or accept me.
I told Julie my fears.
She nodded slowly. Her eyes were getting a bit shiny now too.
“Yes, I see what you mean. It is hard for us, too, to deal with your
illness. But we are willing to try. I don't think Cynthia is. I really
don't. She had you when she wasn't expecting to, and she was so
young! From what Jillian tells me, your mom was never very
maternal. Strangely enough, she took great care of her mother
before she died. Babies are not the same as older folks, I suppose.”
“So why did she have me, then?” I scowled.
“You think it's that easy to abort a baby?” Julie asked softly.
“Back then it wasn't easy to get an abortion in Trinidad. It still isn't.
And you know your mom is Catholic. Jillian said Cynthia never even
considered terminating the pregnancy. Your grandmother would
have had a cow.”
She wasn't even an adult when she got pregnant. What choice
would I have had, in her shoes?
I considered this. Thought about the rumors about a girl in my
school who had disappeared for months and then returned the
mother of a baby boy. The nasty things people said about her, even
though many of them were also having sex and could have well
been in her position. My mother had had me right after leaving
secondary school. She had only been two years older than I was
now. The thought of myself trying to take care of an infant on my
own at such a young age was terrifying. I shuddered, the heaviness
of the burden occurring to me for the very first time.
“I ruined her life,” I despaired.
“Oh, no, honey!” Julie hugged me quickly. “Not at all. You did
make it more challenging. And maybe she didn't deal with it so
gracefully. She did the best she could.”
The enormity of what having me must have meant to my
mother's life, her opportunities, her choices weighed on me. It was
something I'd definitely have to take to therapy.
“But I want you to promise me,” Julie said, “no matter what
happens, that you'll keep an open mind and an open heart. And if
you have to go back home, you'll try to give your mom a break.”
It was ironic to hear the words, but I understood what they
meant. My mom couldn't really handle my illness; I'd have to do it
by myself—with the help of doctors. She wouldn't be supportive. It
wouldn't be the end of the world, not like if she locked me in a cage
or something, but it would make my therapy much harder. One of
the things I'd come to love about my temporary home in Edmonton
was the unspoken support Jillian and Julie gave to me. It was there
in the hugs and the occasional questions: Are you okay? Is there
anything going on we need to talk about? The glances they gave me
were just rich with love and affection. I didn't feel appraised when I
walked into a room where they were, just appreciated.
I was dying to ask how come she and Jillian were fighting to
keep me, but I didn't want to let Julie know I had overheard her
private conversation. Finally my curiosity won out.
“Did you and Aunty Jillian talk about keeping me? I guess it
wasn't a surprise when my mom came to take me home, since you
were so prepared with your arguments.”
“It was kind of a surprise,” she admitted. “We knew she'd come
but didn't expect her until August. I guess she felt we were letting
things get out of hand when you had that last breakdown.”
Her frank use of the word was jarring. I still felt sensitive about
the recent excursion into my mental wasteland. My Classic Nervous
Breakdown. No shame in it, just a need to prevent it from
happening again, or, if it did, to make sure it was dealt with in the
right way.
“Jillian really wants to have children, but I don't think we need
to try to do that now,” Julie said. “We're trying to start a new
business, we're breaking even but not really making much money
yet….It's not a good time for that.”
I tilted my head and looked at her. “How is it okay for me to stay
but not okay for you to have a baby?”
Julie grinned. “I don't have to change your diapers, do I?”
I had to laugh in return.
“Can you imagine Jillian doing it? Since I'm the one who'll
really be doing the fun stuff like that, I guess I have some say in
when we have a baby.”
I could see her point.
She was fingering the end of her long ponytail when a loud
knock came at the door.
It was my mother. Her eyes were red. She looked at Julie and
said, “Do you mind if you and I have a word outside?”
Julie nodded and left with Mom.
I waited nervously but didn't have long to wait.
When Julie came in, her wide smile told me all I needed to
know.
I was staying.
I pulled up my phone and messaged Akilah and Josh: IM
STAYIN YIPEEEEEEEEEEE.
Dr. Khan gave me an exercise to do the day after my mom arrived,
his last appointment before I met my new therapist. He said I
should make a list of all the things I loved about Trinidad and all the
things I hated about it, and all the things I loved about Edmonton
and all the things I hated about it. It would help me to process this
new stage in my life, he said, because even though I thought I only
hated home, nothing is ever that simple.
I started with Trinidad. The things I loved: my mom, Akilah, the
sunshine, the beach, the hills. It was a short list. The things I hated:
my mom; school; how closed-minded people were, how judgmental,
how racist, how mean. Things I loved about Edmonton: Jillian and
Julie, my bedroom, the library, summer flowers, Josh. What I hated
about Edmonton: everything was so strange, so big and so
intimidating, and sometimes I was the only person in the room who
looked like me.
When I showed Dr. Khan my list, he looked thoughtful. “You're
going to work on this, okay? This is just the tip of the iceberg. Spend
some time thinking about what you really miss about home, and
what you really like about here. Trust me, it will help you over the
next few months. Living here, going to school, it's going to be an
adjustment.”
Having to give up her only child—even one she had mixed
feelings about—wasn't something my mom agreed to lightly. There
were terms and conditions. I had to go to school. I had to go home
for Christmas. And most of all, I had to swear I was returning to
Trinidad at the end of a year. I would have agreed to anything short
of the amputation of my limbs to hear that I could stay. I anxiously
agreed to all her rules.
The arrangement did nothing for her temperament. Cynthia was
sour and distant for the next five days, which was as long as her visit
lasted. Even on the four-hour drive to Banff, a national park with
the biggest rivers, lakes, and mountains I'd ever seen, she sat
unimpressed and silent. After a joyless hour of hiking from the
pretty little town up the side of a mountain, Julie and Jillian gave up
on trying to delight Cynthia. The drive back was as silent as the
drive there.
On the night before she left, Jillian threw her a dinner party to
send her back home. Josh and his dad came.
“Mom,” I said, nervously, “this is Josh. He's Jillian's godson.”
She shook his hand and gave him a long up-and-down look,
trying to peer past his skinny jeans and fitted T-shirt to see his soul.
I could have told her it wouldn't work, and that she shouldn't judge
this book by its cover.
“She's letting you stay?” he said under his breath when we went
to the kitchen.
“Yeah,” I replied. “Only for a year, though.” I snuck a look at him
out of the corner of my eye. “What about you?”
“I'm staying!” He was glowing like a lightbulb. “My mom isn't
exactly thrilled, but she's willing to give me up for a year too. So
you'll have company.” He laughed shortly but not unkindly. As we
walked back out to the deck he whispered, “Dysfunctions R Us…”
Julie had gone all out for this dinner. I was glad. In a way, it was
not only my mom's farewell party; it was my welcome home party,
too. In the dining room, I looked at the faces reflected in the yellow
candlelight. Nathan—drinking a glass of water, I was happy to note
—looked interested in something my mother was saying. Jillian
seemed glad, too, smiling broadly and proudly. Julie, as usual, was
placid and kind. And Josh looked excited and thrilled. My mother
wasn't happy, I could see. She was frowning, her lips tight and
turned down. But as the night wore on I could see her relax
somewhat, perhaps getting used to the idea that for the next year
she'd be free of the responsibility of having a teenage daughter to
mind.
I wondered how I looked to them. I could guess: a little anxious,
a little excited, plenty hopeful. I had a year to find my feet in this
world, a year to get used to my condition and to learn to deal with
being clinically depressed and having an anxiety disorder. A year to
start to get better. I was ready.
I rose and slipped away into the tiny closet behind the front
door where the coats were kept. I put my hand into the pocket of my
Princess Di coat and took out the schedules for the Fourteen bus
and the Eighteen bus, the schedules that had been my constant
companions since I had come to Edmonton. I crumpled them into
balls and took them to the kitchen, where I dumped them into the
garbage. Julie was in there to get a fresh bottle of wine. “What's
that?” she asked.
“Nothing important,” I said. And it was true. I knew my buses. I
could find my way home. Home home was right here.
From the other room, Jillian called, “Kayla! Time to eat!”
“Coming!” I answered. Julie took my hand and we walked
outside together.