JAN. 14, 10:48 A.M.
I just saw you yesterday.
There's no way this is real. It can't be.
I keep waiting for you to call.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Jan. 16, 5:17 p.m.
Subject: <none>
I stared at my phone through most of your funeral.
I could have said goodbye to you in my room with some
vanilla-scented candles, a few of your favorite songs,
violets, and a can of orange soda. But instead we had to
do this public ritual where we all stood around, watching
each other cry. When I woke up, I already knew today
would be the worst day of my life.
When we get to the church, your brother walks straight to
the front and kisses the top of the casket, but I can't go up
there. So I just head to the second row of pews and sit
down at the very end. I look at my phone, at the infinite
stream of pictures of you, and I try not to look anywhere
else. For the first time ever, I feel grateful for how many
selfies you took, and I feel bad that I always teased you
about being conceited. If I didn't have hundreds of digital
squares with you in them, I'm not sure how I'd remember
to breathe. After a while, when I do look up, I use different
squares—ones of tinted sunshine spilling through the
stained-glass windows—to mark time as they move across
the room.
I'm sitting with your family. Your mom is squeezing
rosary beads in her hand, weeping in a way that doesn't
make any noise. Your dad's staring straight ahead, but not
really looking at anything. Dante sits down beside me after
he kisses your casket, and I can feel that he's crying by the
way his shoulder moves against mine.
Part of me wants to shift away from him, but I'm frozen.
My family's sitting a few rows behind me. My mother's
dress is impeccable, but her blue eyes are sad, and my dad
has had his head bent the whole time, like a world without
you is one he doesn't want to see. Between their blond
heads is Willow's angled black bob, and you'd love this
haircut on her if you were here. Sometime between winter
break ending and yesterday, she bleached the bluntly cut
ends and dyed them hot pink. She looks like a K-Pop star
despite her puffy, red eyes. When she flew in from college
yesterday, she crawled into bed with me the minute she got
home and rubbed small circles on my back.
Willow sees me looking at her, so she squeezes out of
their pew and comes up to mine. You know I don't really
look like my sister, even on a good day. But with her hair
the way it is now—so full and sharp and pink (and mine the
way that it always is: too long and fine and flat)—we could
be strangers. I look like the “before” scene in the Korean
dramas we watched together, where the girls miraculously
turn pretty.
But when Willow reaches me, she touches my flat black
hair, like it's silk. She holds my hand, as if it's made of
glass, and looks at me a little too closely. I squeeze her
fingers before letting them go to look back down at my
phone, and she steps back and stays quiet. She doesn't try
to make me talk, which is a miracle, because I thought she
was going to be pushy—you know how my sister can get.
But she was perfect. People forget how much silence can
help at times like these.
No one in my family has said anything, but I can tell
how they feel by the way my sister reaches for my hand.
The way my mother stares at me. How differently my dad
says my name. They're so happy I wasn't with you that
night that they can't keep their hands, eyes, and voices
away from me. But every time I think about the fact that I
wasn't, I feel like I'm drowning.
When you went to Alexa's party without me, I was
upset that you didn't beg me to come out with you; that you
went, even though I didn't want to go. It's stupid, but it
hurt, and Margo and Faye were there too, so there wasn't
even anyone for me to text and complain. I was just going
to eat ice cream, read a book, and go to bed early.
Then Dante called.
I went to your house to hang out with him—to have
some fun without you because you were doing things
without me.
And now I have to live with this: I was flirting with him
when I could have been stopping you.
For some reason, the priest asks everyone to stand. I
wasn't paying attention, so when Dante pulls me up and
into his side, I don't realize right away that it's time to pray.
His touch takes me away from the world inside my phone,
where you're still grinning and singing and alive. And for a
second, I just collapse against your brother.
I can't stand on my own in a world where you don't
exist.
Dante reads the weight of my body as an invitation. He
tucks my head under his chin, and I feel a few of his tears
hit my scalp where my hair's parted.
It's so complicated—the way I feel about him, but I
can't think about that now, when I can barely stay on my
feet. So I hook my hand around his hip and hold on tight.
And when the sounds around me return and I hear the
priest praying, I look at the photo of you that sits at the
front of the church in a wreath of violets instead of closing
my eyes.
After a few minutes of standing here anchored to
Dante, I start to feel a little less like I'm sinking. Or at least
like if I'm going down, he won't let me hit the bottom alone.
At the cemetery, Willow holds my hand again like a
good big sister, and I lean into her like I did with Dante at
the church. She cries and cries while the priest sprinkles
holy water over the grave, and I just stare at the dirty hem
of the priest's robe. He says your full name the way your
grandmother says it, at the same time as I read it in the
obituary I'm somehow still holding.
“Oak-TAH-bia Bi-oh-LEH-tah SO-toe.”
Octavia Violeta Soto.
And my whole body goes cold.
I'm supposed to drop a handful of dirt into your grave
like everyone else a few minutes later, but after your dad
starts crying, I just can't. By the time it's my turn it's
raining, and most of the soil has turned to mud anyway. So
instead, I shove the damp obituary into my pocket. I pull
petals from a yellow rose, one at a time, and let them fall—
bright against the dark earth all around them—right before
the casket sinks into the ground.
I don't try to figure out if anyone loves me as I yank
away each velvety petal, the way you used to (He loves me?
He loves me not? Autumn, he loves me!). I just tell the rose
how much I'm going to miss you. How much I already do.
I miss you.
I miss you.
I miss you.
There's never an I miss you not.
And there aren't enough petals on the flower. There
aren't enough petals in the world.
In the limo, Dante has to pull the thorny stem out of my
trembling hand because I'm still gripping it, even though
the naked and ugly bud is the only thing left.
Hours after our friends and your extended family and
my family leave your house, I stay. I help Dante inventory
all the frozen casseroles and stews and empanadas that
people leave behind on your kitchen counters.
When we finish, I pull out my phone again and get lost
in it. But Dante starts pacing around your living room, very
much in the here and now.
He kicks the leg of your dining room table. He punches
a wall and says it's all bullshit. I don't want to be here to
witness Dante explode, but it's been almost impossible for
me to leave your house since you died. I still can't make
myself go.
Dante opens and closes his hand after he hits the wall.
It settles into a tight fist, like he's holding one of his
drumsticks. He aims his angular dark eyes at me, and says,
“You think it's bullshit too, don't you?”
He's talking about the comments on your photos.
They've been rolling in nonstop all week.
I stay quiet. I look down at my phone and read a few of
the newest ones.
I don't have a right to say anything. I've been looking
through your photos since the accident, just like everyone
else. I've been clicking on every single picture you ever
posted, reading over your captions and hashtags, like
they're prayers. I've been ignoring the “Rest in peace,”
“We'll miss you,” and “Only the good die young” messages
people who barely even spoke to you have been leaving
beneath your selfies. There are more broken heart emojis
in the comments than there are kids at our school.
But Dante's right. They are all bullshit. So I look back
up at him and nod.
With my approval, Dante turns to look at the other side
of the room. I don't know what he's going to say next until
he says it.
“We need to get it deleted.”
I'd forgotten your father was in the room, but that's
who Dante's talking to now, probably because your dad has
always been the kind of dad who gets things done. Like
that time he argued with our teacher for giving us
detention for passing notes, when really I was giving you a
Tylenol in an origami box because you had cramps. Or the
time he volunteered to coach our girls' soccer team when
we were in middle school after the paid coach got let go.
But ever since your accident, he just kind of sits there, like
nothing matters. Or maybe like everything does, but he
doesn't know where to start.
Dante can't delete your accounts. Your mom already
cut off your cell phone. I only know that because I was
calling your number over and over again on speakerphone
while I sat in the school parking lot yesterday, just so your
voice could fill the air like it used to.
I wanted to memorize the way you sounded. Where
your tone changed and how I could hear a song playing
softly in the background. Now I can't get your voice out of
my head.
Hey! You've reached Tavia's phone. It's probably in my
pocket or in my purse or on my bed, and I'm sure I really
want to talk to you. So leave me something lovely because I
love you.
The last time I called, I got an automated message
instead. And it was so shocking, to go from hearing you to
hearing We're sorry. You have reached a number that has
been disconnected or is no longer in service. If you feel
you've received this message in error, please check the
number and try again.
I didn't need to check the number, but I did try again.
I don't look at your dad or Dante as I find your name,
press down to call you, and put my phone on speaker. And
when that recorded robot voice tells us your number's been
disconnected, your dad looks at me from across the room.
He shakes his head, like he can't deal; mutters something
in Spanish; and stands up to leave. A minute later, I hear
the front door slam.
I look at Dante, and everything about him softens. The
hard angles of his face become curves. The onyx of his eyes
melts into molasses.
“Did you know,” I ask, “that her number was already
dead?” I flush a little after I hear myself say that word. He
shakes his head.
I wish I'd taken screenshots of every photo you ever
sent me, every selfie with filters that made your eyes
sparkle or gave you the ears and nose of some adorable
animal, because those were private, meant only for me, and
the ones Dante wants to delete are public, for everyone to
see. But the private stuff only lasted a few seconds, and
now those are gone forever, just like you. With your phone
turned off too, I need to preserve every piece of you that
hasn't disappeared.
So while he seems gentler, I ask Dante not to get rid of
your accounts.
“With her phone gone, these pictures are some of the
last things we have left that are purely her.”
He still looks like he wants to punch something, but he
just keeps watching me, quietly.
Even though I know there isn't, I say, “I'll see if there's
a way to disable the comments.”
He frowns, but then he nods.
“And I'll post something asking people to stop,” I add.
I don't say that I know all your passwords and that I
could erase every trace of you in a few seconds.
I don't say that I still send you instant messages and
emails or that during every free moment I have I watch the
long-ago-posted videos of you singing and playing the
piano. I don't tell Dante that as soon as I walk out of his
house, I'll put my earbuds in and dial my own voice mail
because you left me a funny message six months ago that
I'm so grateful I never got around to deleting.
I haven't cried, but I don't say that, either. My hands
shake every time I think about your name, and Dante can't
know that.
He has enough on his mind.
From the look on his face I can tell he's thinking about
how we found out about the crash. Some idiot from our
high school took a picture of your upside-down car and
posted it to his story with a black-and-white filter and the
caption SHIIIIIT. Just saw the worst accident. Perry, of all
people, texted a screenshot of the picture to me with a
message:
Holy shit. This isn't Tavia's car, is it?
It was. The Unraveling Lovely bumper sticker, the one
we designed for the band's tour last summer, was a dead
giveaway.
I knew you were on your way to see Perry, but he had
no idea. I didn't even message him back.
I can feel Dante looking at me. He probably knows I'm
remembering that night too.
“You okay?” he asks.
We say this to each other all the time now, whenever
one of us catches the other zoning out; whenever it's clear
we're thinking about you. I nod, even though I'll never be
okay again, but I don't know what else to say.
I ask him the same question. “Are you?”
And he nods too, completing the circular lie we've been
telling each other for days, since we first saw the photo of
your car.
Lying is the new language we speak. It's the only way
we can talk at all.
Dante's been looking at me a little too much all day,
and it's starting to get to me, so I stand up. I haven't seen
your mom in a while anyway. Your brother's heavy gaze
follows me like a shadow as I make my way out of the room.
But I don't look back.
When I find your mom, she's sitting on your bed. Her
rosary beads are in a pile on her lap.
I sit on the floor by her feet. She smiles and pets my
head, like I'm a puppy, and the whole room smells like you.
Vanilla has always come from your open bottles of
shampoo, your hand lotions, your candles. Today's no
different, except you're not here, and the smell seems all
wrong without you, like an echo heard miles from its
maker. It's almost too much to take.
From across the hall loud music starts to play. Your
mom sighs and I turn my head, but neither of us gets up to
check on Dante.
She says “Hey, Autumn” a bit late, but she's smiling a
real smile. Your mom has always been so steady, but her
hands are shaking, just like they had before she fainted at
the hospital.
“Hi,” I say back. I pull my sleeves over my own
trembling fingers.
Then we just sit there, silent and lonely for you
together, because hellos are nice and neat and so much
easier than goodbyes.
BRAM'S LAST 2 POSTS
@Bramisbored
New video coming soon…Here's a hint: this milk smells
funny.
44 31 320
@Bramisbored
It tastes funny, too.
51 35 334
BRAM IS BORED so he drinks expired milk.
160,791 views | 1 month ago
Shit.
Bram's face is on the news again, and I feel like I'm
gonna puke.
You would think they would do the right thing and ask
his mom for a picture. But apparently, reporters are lazy
douchebags. So they just threw up the first photo they
found. They probably just image searched his name.
Awesome journalism, assholes.
It's been weeks, but they won't stop showing the last
picture he ever posted. So he's always in his uniform.
Forever on the field. Immortalized with his helmet in one
hand, the ball in the other. He's grinning his cocky grin
because he was a cocky bastard, but it seems like there
should be a protocol in place for things like this. It should
be his graduation picture or something more dignified. He
looks too much like himself in this photo, and some part of
me doesn't want the world to see the real version of him.
Plus, I didn't think it would still hurt to see him like
that.
Lively.
Fucking alive.
His name is scrolling along the bottom of the screen,
like he's a thunderstorm warning and not a dead kid.
New evidence in Bram Lassiter case…
Bram Lassiter…Bram Lassiter…Bram Lassiter…
I used to tell him his name sounded like a serial killer's.
Or a horror movie director's. Or like the bad guy's name in
a really shitty book. He used to say he liked my red hair
best when it was short and we were sitting in the sun. “I
have a thing for gingers,” he'd say, with that beautiful grin
of his splitting his face wide open.
But that was before. And we hadn't spoken in months.
That, like most things, is all my fault.
“We go again tonight to Bayside High School,
where varsity quarterback and popular video
blogger Bram Lassiter was found dead in the
boys' locker room on Christmas Eve.
“Local law enforcement originally believed
Lassiter's death was the result of a hate crime
because his body was found beaten. A video of the
student engaged in a homosexual act circulated
online three weeks before his death, and though
most of Lassiter's close friends and relatives
knew of his sexual orientation, many of his online
followers did not.
“Lassiter received numerous threats of
violence following the video's release, but an
autopsy revealed that the visible injuries were not
the cause of death. A tox screen recently
confirmed a drug overdose. NYPD are now
completely eliminating the possibility of foul play
and are ruling the death a suicide.”
“Maybe this will help,” Aden says, and I snap out of my
Bram haze for a second. Aden crosses his small dorm room,
going from his bed to his desk in two big steps, thanks to
his long legs. He turns the TV off and pulls something up on
his laptop. Then music—my music—fills the air. It's a song
by my old band, and while he's a huge fan of our stuff, he
only plays Unraveling Lovely when we're working on a song
if he knows I'm stuck.
He walks back to his bed and quietly strums his guitar
along with the music, and I give him a small smile. This
song, a new one I'm trying to write, has had me stumped
for a solid three weeks. When Bram died, so did my ability
to write. Aden's patient with me, though, because when we
met at a show a few months ago, I was turning out some
okay stuff.
I could tell right away that Aden was everything I
needed after the Unraveling Lovely fiasco—everything that
everyone in my old band wasn't. Aden's quiet.
Uncomplicated. Nice. Predictable. Plus, he isn't some lame
high school dude who's not sure if he's serious about
music. He knew like I did. Like I do. He's in the freaking
music performance program at Queens College. And if I
can get my shit together, I know we can make beautiful
music.
But when Bram's face is fucking everywhere, the way
he kissed me, the way I felt when he touched me, is all I
can think about. It makes writing music with Aden nearly
impossible. And lately, my mind is always somewhere else.
On someone else.
Bram.
“Logan,” Aden says. My small smile hasn't lasted. I'm
staring at the floor biting my thumbnail—the dark blue
polish I'm wearing is flaking off and onto my teeth—and not
because I'm thinking about the song I'm supposed to be
writing.
Aden's voice doesn't sound impatient, but I can tell he's
called my name more than once, by the way his eyes look.
“Do you want one?” He's wiggling a can of beer in his
hand.
I blink and lick my lips. I smile again. I nod. I need to
stop thinking about Bram when I'm supposed to be working
on this song. Jesus.
“I know you're trying to write,” he says. He tosses me
the beer. “But we need to find a drummer. That's a little
more pressing than you finishing a song.”
I nod again as I drain the beer like it's a glass of water.
He doesn't get it. Not being able to finish this song is
stressing me out.
“We need a band name, too,” he adds. “Want to
brainstorm that?”
Aden looks over at where I'm sitting on the floor after
opening a beer for himself. I shrug and reach for another
can.
“Or…we could make some audition flyers,” he suggests
next, completely undeterred by my silence. “We can take
some to The 715—UL used to play there, right? And put
them up online. We can say something like ‘Former lead
singer of Unraveling Lovely seeks badass drummer,'
maybe,” he says, and I roll my eyes so hard, they hurt a
little. “What do you think?”
“I don't want to use my old band's name anywhere.
You're new here, but last summer, we were kind of a big
deal,” I tell him, because he doesn't know any of our
history. Last summer we also bombed at Battle of the Bands
big-time. He doesn't know that, either, but it's a detail I
decide to keep to myself.
Aden nods and sips his beer. “That's my point. We can
use that. We can attract a drummer with the name
Unraveling Lovely alone.”
“We're not using UL's name,” I say again.
He sits down across from me on the floor, and his dark
eyes sparkle. I can see his expression softening, that he's
morphing into flirty-Aden, but I did not come over for this.
You're not supposed to date your only other band member,
so on a good day, I try to pretend I don't notice when he
flirts with me. On bad days, I flirt back.
He touches my knee. “Sorry, L,” he says. He only calls
me L when he's hitting on me. “I can respect that. And I
know the music is important to you. It matters to me too.
But there will be time later to write the perfect song.” He
reaches for my phone because I always write in my notes
app. But the song is still shit, and I don't want him to see.
I put my phone facedown on the floor before he touches
it, and I sigh. “It's fine. You're right.”
The thing is, I know exactly what's broken about this
song: it's the first one I've tried to write that isn't about
Bram.
Aden nods, bats his dark eyelashes, and smiles. But
when I lean forward for beer number three, he says,
“Whoa. Trying for a record?” He reaches for the can sitting
on the floor in front of me and shakes it to confirm it's
empty. It is.
I shrug and say, “I guess not,” but my head is
screaming Hell yes as he turns the music off and the TV
back on.
Aden pulls his laptop onto the floor, and we design
some calls for drummers that he says he'll hang up around
campus and I say that I'll post online. Then we make out a
little, because we do that sometimes, and I can almost
forget about everything for the first few minutes when
Aden's lips are pressed against mine; when hands are
impossibly everywhere at once. But when he laughs and
breaks contact and then says, “Jeez, L, let me catch my
breath,” I can't help but remember how Bram and I
wouldn't stop kissing until we were both gasping for air.
I'm a little buzzed—the promise of oblivion almost close
enough to touch—so when Aden goes down the hall to use
the bathroom, I root around under his bed for the whiskey I
know he has stashed.
I tip the bottle into the Cherry Coke I brought with me,
and when Aden comes back, I'm sipping it. I'm the most
innocent, not-trying-to-get-drunk kid in the world, and I'm
staring at my song again.
Some dumb reality show comes on, so Aden changes
the channel, and there Bram is again—his name, his face,
and one of his videos frozen behind the newscaster's head
—just when I thought I was rid of him.
“You knew that kid, right? He went to your school?”
Aden asks, as if proximity is all it takes. As if closeness is
what makes people close.
This isn't the first time he's asked me about Bram, so
it's not the first time I've lied about him.
“You're from a tiny town, where everyone knows
everyone else,” I say, because he is, and high school in
Queens is different. “There are thousands of kids in my
high school, hundreds in my graduating class. I didn't know
him,” I lie. Again. “But yeah, I knew of him because of
football and his dumbass videos. Everyone knew Bram
Lassiter.”
I kinda want to say his name again, but I know I
shouldn't, so I try to act like I don't notice Bram's face on
TV anymore. I ignore the news the way I've been trying my
hardest to ignore the conspiracy theories that have been all
over school and the Internet. There are a million rumors
about what really happened to Bram, and suicide has
always been one of them.
But when we were together, Bram was a fucking ray of
sunshine most of the time. I don't get how he could go from
the happy-go-lucky goofball who loved sports and doing
dumb things on camera for laughs to a guy who'd off
himself the way they say he did: in a locker room, with
pills, all alone.
Aden asks me to sleep over. “Just sleep,” he insists, and
I agree because I don't want to go home, so I text my mom
to tell her. We order pizza and watch more TV with the
lights out, and I forget about Bram for a while until Aden
passes out. Thanks to my spiked Coke, I'm left lying there,
wide-awake, tipsy and alone in the dark.
I slide my phone out of the pocket of my discarded
jeans. I go to Bram's profile without really deciding to. I
start looking for the photos of us together that I untagged
months ago.
My phone is like a time machine. My thumb is the key. I
travel back through the last six months with a flick of my
finger, and I'm not there, not there, not there.
Until I am.
Thumbnails of Bram and me fill the screen, more than
three hundred altogether. I can't believe they're all still
here. I look over at Aden to make sure he's still asleep,
then back at the pictures on my phone, wondering why
(how?) Bram never had the heart (or the balls) to erase
them.
In the photos, we're at my apartment scarfing down
takeout. We're high off our asses on my stoop, red-eyed and
laughing. We're on the subway and then the Long Island
Rail Road. We're on his fire escape and at the beach
tanning on matching bright green towels. In one blurry
selfie, we're in his bed, sheets of paper covered in math
equations scattered all around us.
Bram sucked at algebra. It's the only reason we met.
Freshman year, he went out for football and made secondstring varsity while I was writing sad songs and
experimenting with liquid eyeliner. By sophomore year,
he'd become the starting quarterback, and I'd joined a
pretty crappy band. So the odds were against us. We were
on opposite ends of the popularity spectrum. But he was
shit at math, and even though I kind of hate school, math's
the one thing I'm good at. Last year, I was already in calc,
but he was struggling through algebra 2. I was assigned to
be his tutor.
I didn't know that I was into him right away. I knew
that I liked the way he kissed his mom on the forehead
every afternoon, as soon as he stepped into their
apartment. I knew that I liked the way he twirled one of his
curls around his finger like a five-year-old girl when he was
trying to work out a really hard problem. I liked the way he
tried so hard to fix everything: leaky faucets, hurt feelings,
his math grade. And I knew that I fucking loved watching
the way the muscles in his forearms flexed every time he
picked up a pencil. But I don't think I knew that I liked him,
at least not for sure, until he kissed me the first time.
We were in his bedroom, studying for his midterm. I
was solving for x when he made an O beside it in my
notebook. I started gnawing on my thumbnail before I even
looked up at him. He raised his eyebrows, grinned, and
said, “You ever been kissed?”
I opened my mouth, but all of the smartass replies I
usually have lined up were gone. I said “um,” and that was
all he needed to hear.
Bram grinned even wider. He picked up his phone and
started typing, and a second later, that cheesy song about
kissing, the one from every nineties rom-com ever, was
filling up his tiny room.
“Oh my god,” I said. “You're not serious.”
He responded, “Dude, this song is awesome,” and
started singing along.
I couldn't stop myself. I laughed, loud. I stared at him,
like he'd grown another head. And when the second chorus
started, he narrowed his eyes and pushed his curls off his
forehead. He looked serious all of a sudden.
“What?” I said. I was biting my nail again, because
Bram was so damn cute and I'd never been kissed and he
was licking his lips. He pushed my hand away from my
mouth, and when I looked back up at him he smirked.
Something about the light made his green eyes kind of
sparkle. When he kissed me, I almost forgot who I was.
I didn't even smile when he pulled away. I just grabbed
his neck, yanked him back, and made out with him until my
lips went numb.
“I've never even kissed a girl before,” I whispered to
him. But what I didn't say was that now I knew I never
would. We were standing at the door of his bedroom, and
my lips were swollen, my face rubbed red from his stubble.
He'd just handed me my bag.
When our fingers touched, he smirked and tucked a
pencil behind my ear.
“I fucking knew it,” he said. He kissed me again, his
big, rough hand on my face like he needed me to hold still.
A week later, we were official, and nine months after that, it
was over.
I put my phone down and stare through Aden's window.
I can't see the moon, just the top of a few buildings. And I
wish I were on a rooftop. I wish I were anywhere I could
say Bram's name out loud. Make him real again, even for a
second.
When I lift my phone again, I go to his online video
channel, BRAM IS BORED. He started vlogging right before
we got together, and by the end, he had thousands of
subscribers. It's funny because I was always the one who
wanted to quit school and get famous, and Bram just
wanted to play football and go to college. But my band
broke up, and his channel took off. He became Internet
famous, and I haven't written a new song in forever.
I pull up the last video he posted, where he chugs an
entire gallon of spoiled milk. It's gross but also kind of
funny. Plus, Bram looks good, even when he's doing dumb
shit. I've been a subscriber since he posted his first video,
and sometimes I even commented, but he never knew it
was me. Even when we dated, I never told him my
username.
The views and comments on this video are blowing up.
They always seem to surge whenever his face is on the
news again, like everyone forgets that he's fucking dead,
and when they remember, they can't shut up about it. But
I'm watching too, as desperate to connect as everyone else.
The difference is, I really knew him. We were in love.
I don't know if it's the booze or the stupid comments or
the pictures of him smiling at me, but my eyes are suddenly
pooling with tears. I feel angry and hot, sad and alone. I
miss him, like we broke up last week and not six months
ago.
I don't know the rules, because he's my only ex, but he
kept our pictures. And the songs that I wrote and sang
about him made me almost famous. So I click inside the
comment box and stare at the blinking cursor. I feel like he
deserves at least one honest message, even if it's too late
for him to read it.
Bram's green- and gold-flecked eyes, his big hands, and
his deep voice fill my head. I think about kissing him and
about more than kissing him. I try to count how many times
we said “I love you” to each other. And then I think about
the thing I'm always trying so damn hard not to think
about.
Our breakup. His face. The last words I ever said to
him.
I swallow hard. I type out three tiny words, and I let
them fly before I lose my nerve.
I'm so sorry.
Then I press my face hard into Aden's extra pillow,
hating everything. Especially myself.
I don't know what I'd do if Aden woke up right now.
I shouldn't be crying about another boy.
A dead boy.
Even if he was the first boy and only boy I ever loved.
SASHA'S LAST BLOG POST
lifeaccordingtoleuk
Dying flowers are the prettiest.
148 notes
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…FASTEN
YOUR SEAT BELTS
Looks like: a (New Age) boy band…
Sounds like: (with) damn good writing
Tastes like: Sour (Cabbage) Patch kids (this should be the
new name for this band. You don't even have to give me
credit if you use it)
3/5
Sasha died three months ago today. Ever since, I've felt a
little out of control.
But there's something about music that tethers me to
the rest of the world.
I'm screaming lyrics at the top of my lungs, so I barely
even register the bodies pressing against me from all sides.
The music is so loud that the bass is filling up my chest, so I
can't feel my always-racing heart. I know the faces onstage,
the set list, and that the people on either side of me are
loving every second of sound as much as I am, so I don't
have that clogged feeling in my throat that usually makes
me want to sob or fight or run whenever I'm in a crowd.
Music is the only reason I can ever ignore the feelings
that always have me on edge; that almost never leave me
alone.
The set ends. I'm sweaty and smiling and tingly all over,
and we're all still screaming—we're desperate for Fasten
Your Seat Belts to come back and do one more song. But
they can't tonight because the schedule is packed, and
when I pull up the invite for this show on my phone, I see
that Rohan's new band, Our Numbered Days, is up next.
Without music playing, the room fades into painfully
sharp focus: Flashes of light from a dozen phones taking
selfies in the dark. Scratches across the stage as
stagehands dressed in as much black as I reorganize the
setup. The clatter of glasses from people ordering at the
bar, and voices shouting for friends or laughing. Hands,
everywhere, reaching.
The space inside my head that the music filled up with
warmth moments earlier overflows with something icy. It
sends all the messed-up, mixed-up signals to the rest of me.
My stomach and chest flood with the hot, bad kind of
butterflies. My palms get slick, and I instantly wish I had
my sister's cool fingers to grab—she was always my safety
net when the world got to be too much. Her hospital
bracelet, the one I haven't taken off since the night she
died, suddenly feels too tight on my wrist. I look at the
glowing emergency exit sign, and I make my way toward it
before the alarms sounding in my body get any louder.
—
When I come back inside, Rohan is onstage with Marc and
Jo and Pooja. They're playing a song I don't recognize, but
the melody is catchy as hell. I say hi to a few kids as I make
my way through the crowd, trying to lie kinda low, so Ro
doesn't notice me walking back in during his set, but kids
keep shouting my name from almost every direction. It's
hard not to know everyone in this scene if you go to enough
shows, and I go to more than enough shows. I have to for
the fan site I started with my sister: Badass Music Fanatics.
I holler a few more hellos, but I want to find the rest of
the BAMF contingent (aka my real friends), like, now. I'm
not sure how much of Rohan's set I've missed, so I pull out
my phone to text Deedee. I'll never find her in a crowd like
this, in spite of her hair, which is almost as big as mine, and
that in a sea of white faces, she and I are the only two black
girls here.
Deedee texts and says she's only a few feet from the
stage and that she's found Callie, but before I can text
back, Jerome is beside me with his lips against my ear.
“Shay,” he says, and I can tell by his voice that he's
been smoking.
I turn around and look at Jerome's lips, mostly to make
sure I hear whatever he says next, but then I can't look
away. They're heart-shaped and pretty, and he licks them,
like he's going to start talking again, but I stop him by
pressing my finger against his mouth. I close my eyes, and I
kiss Jerome's pretty lips because I've been kissing them
(him?) all month. I don't want Jerome to say anything
because I have a feeling I know what he wants to tell me:
something about how he likes me; something about how we
should be more than the occasional kiss. But I can barely
stay in a room, so I don't even want to think about trying to
stay in a relationship. I've never had a boyfriend, and I
can't even imagine it.
I slip my hands into the pockets of his oversize
cardigan and grab his lighter at the same time. Then my
hands are in the back pockets of his saggy-bottomed
corduroys, looking for what's left of his joint. “Aha!” I say,
pulling my clenched fist from his pocket. He smiles, but he
doesn't laugh.
“I saw you run outta here,” he says. “You cool?”
I pull away and look up (because his lips aren't the only
pretty parts of him), but his light brown eyes are searching
mine for something I don't want to share. So I look back
down at the things in my hands. He's one of the few people
who understands that when I fly from a room, I need space
to catch my breath. It's one of the many reasons I like
kissing him. I nod.
“Cool,” he says.
I give him a quick peck on the cheek before I flick open
his lighter and hit his joint. The tiny flame illuminates the
ripped band T-shirt I'm wearing, my arm full of bangles,
how little space there is between the two of us. Jerome
tucks one finger into the stretched out neck of my shirt and
another through a loop in my jeans. I inhale smoke, and
calm, and him.
This venue is teens only, which means no drinking and
definitely no smoking, but I've never really let those rules
stop me before. I feel my tense muscles relax the tiniest bit
as I blow a thin ribbon of smoke into the barely-there space
between us where no one will notice it.
He tips his head in my direction like I'm royalty, and
the weathered metal of the vintage rings he's always
wearing glint dully under the stage lights. He slips the joint
from my fingers and puts it out between two of his own. As
he moves away from me, I can see longing in his bloodshot
eyes. I wonder if he can see the same thing in mine.
A minute later, I find Deedee. She's pressed against the
wall on the far side of the stage with Callie and a few other
people we know from school and shows like this one.
“Hey,” I say. I wedge my shoulder between two guys I
know from cross-country and nod at them. My heart revs
up from their closeness, but I hook my arm through
Deedee's, and I feel a little better.
“ ‘Hey'?” Callie says, looking annoyed. Her thin, dark Tshirt has holes in it, and her pale skin is almost glowing
from beneath it, like pinholes of light.
“Yeah,” Deedee agrees. “Where the heck have you
been?” She slaps at my arm. She's pulled all her superthick hair away from her eyes into a loose ponytail she
probably can't get any tighter. Her glasses are fogged up,
so I pull them off her face and wipe them with the hem of
my shirt.
“You almost missed his whole set, and they're sooo
damn good.”
“Unraveling Lovely good?” I ask. (They're my gold
standard for everything.) I place her glasses back on her
nose.
“Close,” she says. Then I look at Callie. Her hazel eyes
and pursed, glossy lips seem to add, But not quite.
Deedee shows me a few pictures she took of Rohan
when he got down on his knees during a guitar solo, and I
post the best one to the BAMF account with just the name
of his band: Our Numbered Days. I tag my location, and I
add a rating: five shooting star emojis in a row. But I want
to do a little extra since this is Rohan's new band. I add a
trio of heart-eyed smileys, like I've fallen in love with music
I've barely heard.
“Them likes, though,” Callie says as she looks over my
shoulder. She's a nerd for numbers, and my post has
twenty-two likes and eight comments almost immediately.
“Pays to be a little bit Internet famous,” I say, and
Deedee adds, “At least on Long Island.”
I silently wish Sasha could see how much our followers
love that Ro is in a new band. BAMF was her idea.
The two of us have been obsessed with pop-punk and
indie rock since our babysitter introduced us to some of her
favorite bands when we were nine, the year before Sasha
was diagnosed, so as I listen to Rohan's next song, I think
about what Sasha might have said about it. She'd point out
the lyrics of the bridge (something I never notice) or that
the bass line is subtle but necessary. And I think that
maybe that's why I love this music so much. Every piece of
it—from the distortion on Rohan's guitar, to the way I can't
help but nod my head to the beat—reminds me of her.
We were so into our music in a way not very many
black kids are. So a few years ago, when we started going
to shows and seeing how outnumbered we were, Sasha
wanted kids like us to have a place where they could
unabashedly love the music they love and not feel weird
about it. BAMF was born, and the blog was how we met
Rohan: he recruited Sasha and me to manage his old band,
and managing Unraveling Lovely made us blow up.
Obviously, anyone who loves music is welcome in the
BAMF community, but with our faces front and center on
the “About” page as the creators—and Deedee as the
photographer—we've always hoped to help other brown
and black kids with our taste in music feel a little less
alone.
Despite Unraveling Lovely's upset at Battle of the
Bands, people still trust what we have to say about music.
So I've always done show coverage. Deedee takes all the
pictures. Callie does a pretty low-budget, biweekly podcast
where she interviews aspiring musicians. Sasha used to do
pretty much everything else, including writing demo and
album reviews, so now we're going to have to find someone
else to help us out.
I mostly try not to think about it.
“So, thanks so much for coming out tonight,” Rohan
says into the mike after the song ends and the audience
quiets down. He pushes his dark hair away from his even
darker eyes, and he's grinning, all dimples and whiskers.
I'm pretty bummed I almost missed the whole set, and Ro
won't be happy about it either. Still, I let out a long, loud
“Wooooo!” before he says anything else, and he grins.
“This is the last song we're gonna play tonight. It's a
cover of one of my favorites. Today is a pretty rough day…
so I want to dedicate it to someone.”
His voice sounds pinched, like it's too big for his throat,
and my stomach clenches because I'm almost positive I
know what's coming. Today marks three months since…And
it looks like he might be scanning the crowd for me.
“This one's for you, Sasha,” he finishes.
I just got back, and I want so desperately to hear the
rest of his set, but her name rips me wide open again when
I'd only just managed to put myself back together. I look at
Deedee, and she's biting her bottom lip, already untangling
her arm from mine because she knows what's coming.
Callie tries to stop me. She says, “Shay, just wait,” but I
can't. I shove my way through the crowd, back toward the
exit, before he sings the first note.
—
In the parking lot, it takes me three tries to unlock my bike
because everything about me is shaking. But when I push
my headphones on over my hair and press play, the perfect
song spills into my ears. I turn it up, focusing on the
singer's desperate voice and pedaling to the bass line. I let
the steady drums and the clearest notes from the guitar
flow through me like a current.
The last time I heard the song Rohan was about to play,
we were in Sasha's hospital room. His voice mixed with
mine as we sang it to her. I was holding her hand, and
when I looked around the room, Mom was shaking and the
nurses were sniffling. There was Rohan, who I couldn't
bear to watch, and a priest who I abruptly decided to hate.
Sasha looked at me when the song ended and said,
“Fucking Luke,” and we both smiled even as tears spilled
onto our cheeks. When her eyes closed, and the nurses
confirmed she was in a coma, Mom looked at me, and I
knew her face mirrored my own expression. It was official:
Sasha wouldn't wake up.
I couldn't watch. I didn't want to know which organ
would fail my sister first. I kissed her chilly fingers and
wiped my tears away with my thumbs. I pushed my way out
of the room because I knew Mom was too distraught to
stop me, and I could feel the tension building in my limbs.
That hadn't been the first time my body betrayed me—
my heart squeezing, sweat breaking out across my upper
lip—but it was the first time I didn't have Sasha to bring me
back from the edge, to tell me that I'd be okay. Ever since
that night, whatever goes haywire inside me has been
showing itself a lot more often.
“Fucking Luke” and sometimes “Motherfucking Luke”
is what Sasha and I always said in unison whenever
something new went wrong for her, as if the cancer were a
crappy boyfriend she couldn't shake instead of leukemia.
The music is helping (it always does). I can breathe
again, and I feel a little more in control. Even though I'm
all alone, pedaling like mad down a darkened back road,
when the song ends, I tilt my head up to the sky. I scream
at the stars.
“MOTHERFUCKING LUKE!”
I'm only about a half mile away from home when Rohan
catches up to me in the Band Wagon, aka his crappy black
minivan. The side of it is still spray-painted with a huge
“Unraveling Lovely” from when the band went on their
mini-tour, so there's no mistaking him for anyone else.
When I look over, I see my reflection in his window, and
I wish it weren't an image of phantom me. I wish I were
seeing Sasha, healthy Sasha, sitting in Rohan's truck. We
were identical, so if I squint in this kind of dark, I can
almost believe it's true.
We used to have the same wild, dark hair, precisely the
same shade of honey-brown skin, round cheeks, and baby
faces. But by the time she died, right before our sixteenth
birthday, Sasha had wasted away so much that she only
looked like an unfinished sketch of me—a half-drawn
picture that hadn't yet been colored or filled in. I didn't
even know it was possible for black people to be pale. Until
there was no other word for what my sister's skin had
become.
Rohan rolls down his window and then points to my
headphones. I pull the cup off the ear closest to him, but I
keep pedaling.
He says, “Shay, slow down” and then “Don't be like
this.” He drives slow to keep up with me, but I keep up my
silence.
He tries “Stop” and then “Let me drive you the rest of
the way.” But I scrub at my face, in case there are still tears
on my cheeks, and I stand up to pedal when we come to the
base of a hill. I don't want his comfort. I want my twin
sister. No one else, not even one of my best friends, will do.
“How much of my set did you even hear?” he asks, the
hurt spilling into his voice.
I look over at him then. One of his arms is hanging out
of his window, and he has to be cold because he's not
wearing his jacket. He must have run out of the club to
chase me as soon as he finished the last song.
I shake my head, and the tears bubble up and over
again. I barely manage it, but I whisper, “I'm so sorry.”
“It's okay,” he replies, but we both know it isn't. I just
hope he sees the BAMF post later and forgives me.
I'm huffing and puffing and still kind of crying, and it is
so cold. I say the only thing I think I can without completely
falling apart again.
“Just…Can you not play that song, again? At least for a
while? I can't stand it.”
I look back over at him, and the way he's looking at me
makes me wish for a different face. I love my sister, but he
loved her too, and I can't help but wonder how much of her
he sees when he looks at me. I think the same thing about
Mom.
He nods, and stops talking, but he follows close behind
until I turn onto my street. As soon as I park my bike and
pull out my keys, he drives away.
When I open the front door, Mom's not home (because
she's never home), and I should be used to it. She's always
worked a lot, but I miss her more at night now than I did
before. Music will have to keep me company for now.
I unplug my portable speaker from the charger and
sync it to my phone. I turn the volume all the way up. I just
left a show headlined by Our Numbered Days, but I pull up
my Unraveling Lovely playlist. My whole hand feels like its
vibrating with bass as I carry the speaker from my dresser
to my bed.
As I sing along to the soundtrack of last summer, I pick
up my phone to check on the photo of Rohan I posted
earlier instead of doing the homework I still haven't
finished. It has 437 likes and dozens of comments, and I
hope it will be enough to win Ro's forgiveness for missing
the majority of his first show with his new band. Without
really deciding to, I flick through my pictures, back to three
months ago, when my sister was still here.
In the last photo I posted with Sasha, she and I are
curled around each other on the roof of the hospital,
wrapped in piles of blankets like newborns. It was October,
two weeks before our sixteenth birthday, and when Rohan
and I asked Sasha what she wanted, she said, “To see the
stars.” Rohan helped me sneak her into the elevator in a
wheelchair; then he carried her up the last flight of stairs
and out onto the roof. He took this photo of us.
Mischief managers, the caption reads. It has more than
a thousand likes, and as in the comments of any picture of
Sasha, all anyone ever says is that they miss her. It makes
me feel less alone even knowing most of our followers don't
really know her at all.
I'm feeling a little calmer after reading a few
comments, and after the first UL song ends, but in that
dreaded two-second gap between the first and second
tracks, I hear the front door slam. A moment later, Mom's
voice is fighting its way up the stairs, competing with
Logan's as the next song starts.
“Shay, what have I told you about that noise? Turn it
down before you and I both go deaf!”
I cut my music and examine my face in the mirror
before I head downstairs. I look okay; not like I sobbed all
the way home. I reapply some of my eye makeup, just to be
safe. She's stepping out of her heels when I get to the
bottom of the stairs.
“Hey, Mom,” I say. “You're back pretty late.”
“I know, sweetie. I'm sorry. Did you finish your
homework? Have you eaten?” She starts walking toward
the kitchen, and I wonder if I'll ever fill out like her—get
the hips she's had for my whole life, or a butt that can
actually make a pair of jeans or a skirt look good.
I dodge her first question. “I had something to eat at
the show.”
I stand behind her as she fills our electric kettle with
water to make herself a cup of tea. She pulls down two
mugs, and then I think it hits her; the mistake she's made.
I'm not the twin who was an Anglophile—who drank tea
and read British literature for fun and watched BBC
documentaries with her every Friday night. I'm not Sasha,
even though I look like her. Mom glances at me anyway,
and I shake my head. I'm the twin who likes coffee, who
likes music magazines, and who likes watching BMX
videos. She puts one of the mugs back into the cabinet.
I pour myself a big glass of water and hop up to sit on
the counter, like we're going to chat, because she and
Sasha used to talk for hours. (I have no idea what about.)
We both end up looking at our phones instead of saying
anything else to each other, though.
When she says “Don't stay up too late” and heads for
the stairs, I ease toward Sasha's room.
I open the door and just stand there for a moment,
trying to decide how much I can handle today. With the
song Rohan played still fresh in my mind, and my palms
already turning a little sweaty, I decide I'm too on edge to
attempt to lie in my sister's bed tonight and read the poetry
and song lyrics she painted across her ceiling. I slide down
by the door to sit on the floor because I don't want to walk
in any farther, but I don't want to leave, either.
I turn on her TV and queue up our favorite show,
Intervention. Rohan and I used to lie in bed with Sasha and
watch hours of it on the weekends. I lean against the wall
and watch as a girl only a little older than me tells the
camera that she's been hooked on heroin since she was
sixteen.
Sasha's favorite beanie, an all-black one with two cat
ears stitched onto the top, is sitting in a basket by the door,
the peak on a mountain of all the knit hats my sister
collected once she'd lost her hair. I grab it, shove it over my
own messy curls, and finish up the episode. Then I actually
do my homework, trying to soak in the Sasha-ness of
Sasha's room until I feel as calm as I would have if she
were here beside me.
When I open the bedroom door to leave, I hear Mom in
the kitchen again. I stand there for a second, hoping to wait
her out because I don't want to have another awkward
nonconversation.
“No, it's not that,” I hear her say. She must be on the
phone. “Sasha was so open, you know? She told me
everything. But Shay doesn't talk to me, so I don't know
how she's feeling or how to help her.” She pauses, and I
step into the hall, ready to assure her that I don't need any
help, that I'm completely fine. I'm seconds away from
turning the corner to the kitchen when she speaks up
again, and her voice sounds almost weepy. “I just want her
to be okay.”
I stop. I take a few steps back toward Sasha's room,
unsure of what to do. I knew Mom was sad about Sasha,
but I had no idea she was sad about me too. I don't know
what I could have done to make her worry.
When Mom goes back to her room, I head back to mine.
But I can't get her words out of my head, which makes it
impossible for me to fall asleep. Only twenty minutes pass
before I creep back downstairs, lace up my running shoes,
and grab my jacket.
Outside, in the cold, my feet pound the pavement, and
my breath is a puff of white in front of my face. Besides
music, running is the only thing that consistently helps to
keep me calm. I run to the end of my street, then around
my block.
I keep running. Past my old elementary school, its
playground creating a shadowy silhouette in the moonlight.
Past my high school, where Rohan, Deedee, and Callie
cheered me on in a track meet earlier today. Up the hill
that leads to the park where me and Sasha used to swap
secrets on the swings, and farther still, to the parking lot of
the hospital where my sister died.
I slow down and jog over to an empty spot in the lot. I
lie down on the cold asphalt, and I feel unmoored, like I'm a
ship, and the black concrete around me is the sea. While I
wait for my pulse to slow, I stare up at the seagulls circling
the lot—maybe they think it's a body of water. Sasha was
my lighthouse, my north star, so I search for a sign of her in
the dark.
Some people visit their loved ones' graves to talk to
them, but for some reason, I like talking to my sister at the
hospital. Maybe because this was the last place I saw her
alive.
“Mom's worried about me,” I say out loud. “But I don't
really know why.”
It's Momma, Sasha says inside my head. She worries
about everything.
“Yeah, but I'm a pretty good kid,” I say.
You are, but she must know something else is going on.
I shake my head. “She doesn't know about me staying
out late.”
Because she's never there.
“Right. She knows I go to shows all the time, but she
has no idea about the smoking. And I guess my grades
could be better,” I say. Sasha doesn't answer, but I know
she agrees.
I turn my head, almost expecting to see my sister
beside me, because we would lie in bed all the time and
have talks like this. She always stayed quiet when I talked
about school because she hadn't been in one for almost a
year. I close my eyes so I can picture her as clearly as I can
summon her voice.
What about the running? Sasha asks.
“Track?”
No, the flipping out. The running away? I'm sure that
worries her, too.
I open my eyes and look up again. “She's never seen it
happen, though.”
I'm sure she wouldn't be happy if she knew about it.
And it's Momma. She probably knows about it.
“I hope not.”
I think of Mom's words tonight: I just want her to be
okay. And it's funny because I just want her to be okay. She
shouldn't be worrying about me after she spent the last five
years worrying about Sasha. She deserves a little peace.
I should go home right now. I never should have left.
It's late, and I'm not stupid—I know I shouldn't be out by
myself, running recklessly through the dark. But I think I've
decided this is my last night doing things that would worry
Mom if she knew about them, and I want to enjoy it.
I stand up, turn on the loudest song on my phone, and
run in the direction of the beach. The wheels in my head
are turning, and since I wouldn't mind being less like
myself right about now, I hatch a plan to become the kind
of kid Mom won't have to worry about.
JAN. 17, 3:19 A.M.
My mom said I have to go back to school on Monday, so
I'm not talking to her.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Jan. 20, 1:41 a.m.
Subject: <none>
Alexa was crying when I saw her in the hall my first day
back, and seeing her crumpled against her locker made
me want to run to her. But when I got a little closer, she
wiped her face really fast and pulled out her phone, and
tried to seem surprised when I tapped her on the shoulder.
Because Alexa never wears makeup, she can look almost
normal after crying. Her nose is all pink, and her brown
eyelashes are pinched together because they're still a little
wet, but no mascara is running.
It makes me remember how you'd attack her with
liquid liner before we went to parties. How you'd send me
links to your favorite Asian vloggers' makeup tutorials,
hoping I'd follow the instructions to make my own eyes
“pop.” And I'm seconds away from bringing up your
makeup obsession with Alexa. But then I realize she's
pretending that she wasn't crying. She wants me to think
everything is fine, and I don't really want to upset her
again. So I try to stop thinking about makeup—about how
much lip gloss and bronzer you owned—and I bump her
shoulder. She smiles a little, and neither of us says a thing
about you.
We walk to class together, and Margo and Faye join us
on the second floor, but the balance of the way we take up
space is off. Faye is supposed to be in front—walking
backward telling a story, or facing forward, like we're a
ship and she's at the helm. Margo and Alexa should be in
the middle, and Alexa should be turning her head to tell me
everything Faye is saying. Margo should be adding her own
commentary to make us laugh. Your arm is supposed to be
threaded through mine—the fifth point in our star.
Instead, Faye is next to me. She says, “How was your
weekend?” But she doesn't sound normal. Her voice comes
out a little higher pitched than it should be, and her eyes
are too wide and wet-looking. Her head is tilted slightly,
like I'm a small child or a puppy, and I know she means
well, but I hate when people talk to me using their
Sympathy Voice.
I don't say anything at first. But the truth is, I want to
tell her everything: that my weekend was terrible, that I've
been sleeping at your house, that being back here is harder
than I thought it would be. That it took me twenty minutes
to find something clean to wear and that everything with
Dante is weird and complicated now. But telling her things
that I can't tell you first feels strange.
Eventually, I say, “Weekend was fine, I guess.” But still
Faye stays beside me, looking concerned. Margo has her
arm around Alexa's shoulders, and she hasn't said anything
funny at all. Alexa hasn't looked at me since we were at her
locker, and no one's really talking when usually, we don't
shut up. I can tell Faye wants to say something else or
wants me to, but when I stay quiet, so does she. She waves
to some guy she knows and then touches my shoulder
before she goes over to talk to him instead of me. I already
want to go home.
I keep pretending everything is normal, even though
nothing is normal, because I'm not sure what else to do. I
roll my eyes when a teacher makes a dumb joke in
homeroom, and I try to ignore the gaping hole your empty
chair carves right through me. I compliment Margo's shoes
before our next class, and she tells me where she got them,
but her explanation is way shorter than it would ordinarily
be. I even laugh when we watch an embarrassing video in
health class, but when Faye looks at me as if I've done
something wrong, I bite my lip. I feel like I have.
Between periods, a few people hug me or touch my
shoulders as they tell me they're sorry that you're gone.
They talk to me in their everyday voices, and it's a relief to
hear them saying your name. I hug them back and say
thank you. For some reason, it's easier for me to talk to
random people than it is for me to say anything to our
friends.
After a few more classes with the three of them barely
speaking to one another or me, I decide to eat lunch alone.
I'm tired of not knowing what to say or do around them, so
I sit at the table near the bathroom, the one that smells
kind of bad. I see Alexa look around for me when she first
gets into the cafeteria, but Margo pulls her toward our
usual table. Faye says hi to about a million people, the way
she always does, but eventually, she goes to our table too.
I watch our friends until the scene makes my chest feel
like it's caving in. I don't know where I fit inside the picture
of us without you.
I've always felt a little…optional to them, and the lack
of you in the lunchroom makes me feel more unnecessary
than ever. Your absence is more shocking here than it's
been almost anywhere else, like in one of those spot-thedifference games where something essential has been
erased from one of the pictures. I'm an extra cloud in an
already-cloudy sky, but you were the leg of a table. You
were our sun.
Perry sees me sitting by myself, and before I can run
away from his gaze, he comes over.
“Hey, Autumn,” he says. He puts his tray down on the
table. He's thinking about staying, but I hope he doesn't.
He plucks at the front of his baggy T-shirt, like he's hot, and
lifts his blond eyebrows higher than he needs to when he
starts talking.
“That history test was intense, right? Tavia's like, a
history genius, so I used a couple of her memorization
tricks.”
He smiles and taps at his temple, but that's when I
notice that the whites of his small gray eyes are red, and I
wonder if he's been crying, or having a hard time sleeping,
or both. It's hard to look at him for too long knowing you
were on your way to see him that night. I know you still
loved him, but he doesn't.
I don't know how to process everything that seeing him
makes me feel.
“Sorry, Perry. I gotta go,” I tell him as I stand up. I'm
too tired to come up with an actual excuse.
I've had my phone on all day. Between periods, I look at
pictures of you with it hidden in my locker so it doesn't get
confiscated, but right now, I don't really care. I call my
sister and put the phone right up to my ear before I even
get to the door of the girls' bathroom.
“Autumn,” Willow says. There's a frantic edge to her
voice, but she's working hard to sound like her normal self.
“Everything all right?”
“Not really,” I say. I tell her about Perry. Then about
everyone else.
“Alexa has Margo, and Faye has never really needed
anyone. It's like I suddenly don't have a place to stand. Like
I don't fit anymore.” I pause when a girl comes into the
bathroom, and I wait for her to go into a stall before I say
anything else.
“I guess I didn't think I would feel so out of place
without her,” I whisper, hoping the other person in the
bathroom doesn't hear. Willow sighs, so I know she knows
I'm talking about you. “And I thought I wouldn't want to
talk about her, you know? But not talking about her is
worse. It feels like we're ignoring the fact that she's
missing. That she's gone.”
“Sounds like they don't know how to process what's
happening,” Willow says after a pause. “They're probably
not dealing with it, or whatever. Or maybe they feel weird
because they don't know what to say since the two of you
had been friends for so long before you even met them. She
was yours first. But even if they don't know what to say,
they should be trying harder to be there for you.”
I can tell my sister's trying to analyze them, just
because she declared her major recently: psych. But I can't
deny that I find comfort in the fierceness of her love. I cling
to her words about you: She was yours.
“I love you, Will,” I say to her, even though we don't say
that to each other very often. And that tiny truth is
something I wish I told you every day. “It's just that…losing
her was hard enough. I don't think I can handle it if I end
up without them, too.”
“I get it,” Willow says. “But don't forget that you're not
the only one hurting.” I picture Alexa's face, and I try not to
feel my own pain multiply. “You guys should be supporting
one another right now, not, like…ignoring everything.
Maybe try to do something small? Show them what you
wish they'd do for you?”
It's not a terrible idea, but I'm not sure I can do it
today. “Yeah. I'll try to figure it out.”
“Call me later, okay?” Willow says. And I just tell her I
love her again before I hang up.
I stay in the stall and text Dante. He isn't back at school
yet, and he probably doesn't really care, so I don't bug him
with the Alexa-Margo-Faye drama. But I do tell him about
Perry.
I just don't get why he's talking to me, I send. He never
talked to me like this before, even when they were dating.
Yeah, Dante sends back. But that's all he says.
Where are you? I ask. He never answers my question.
After school, I ask my dad if it's okay, and I drive to
your house instead of mine.
I do my homework in your den, like you're right there
beside me the way you used to be. I watch Teen Mom on
your couch with your mom, but you liked that show more
than either of us, so we switch to a weird indie movie.
When it's time for dinner, I help her make a salad and pour
your dad some wine. We listen to some contemporary
classical, and they say it's a shame that I quit playing the
violin. I talk about school when they ask me about it, but I
don't tell them about how weird things are with our friends.
Dante isn't around all afternoon or evening, and part of
me is relieved. But when my mom calls around ten and asks
when I'm planning to come home, he comes through the
front door, looking rosy-cheeked and pissed. When he sees
me, his face doesn't exactly light up, but it's suddenly a
little less shadowed.
“Is it okay if I stay the night?” I ask my mom while he's
still watching me.
She covers the mouthpiece, but I still hear her muffled
voice when she says to my dad, “I'm worried she's
spending too much time over there, aren't you?”
That's when I remember that I wasn't talking to her for
a reason.
“Maybe it's helping her, Abby,” I hear my dad answer.
“Maybe we just let her do whatever she thinks she needs
for a while. Autumn's not Willow,” he adds, as if I'm more
fragile than my sister, as if I need to be handled with more
care. And something about the way he says my name
makes me angry. My face must have changed because
when I turn toward him, Dante asks me our question with
his eyes.
You okay?
I nod, deciding that maybe I shouldn't be speaking to
either of my parents.
“Okay,” my mom says, to me, finally. “Okay. Do you
need a change of clothes?”
—
Dante finds me in your room after midnight.
I'm sitting on the floor beside your bed, and I'm holding
that thin, hot pink scarf I bought for you because you said it
looked like a wish. You were always saying stuff like that—
making everyday things seem like magic.
Dante sits on the floor beside me, and he leaves a few
inches of space between us.
He just showered. His too-black hair is wet, and he
smells just like you. Without really deciding to, I lean
toward the familiar scent. Or toward him. Maybe he's the
one who moves. Either way, there was space between us,
and then suddenly, there isn't.
He nods at the scarf and says, “You should take that.
Tavia would have wanted you to have it.”
Our shoulders are touching, and I can feel his warm
skin through the thin fabric of my shirtsleeve. I can feel his
breath on my cheek as he says it.
I lick my lips and try not to breath in the vanilla-y scent
of him too deeply.
“Did you use her shampoo?”
His thick hair is dark as a shadow, and he runs his hand
through it, then sniffs his fingers. I watch him out of the
corner of my eye.
“Is that weird?” he asks me.
I shrug. “No, not really.”
But when he sniffs his fingers again, something about
his normally serious face being all scrunched up makes me
laugh.
It feels wrong like it did in health class. But it's worse
here, in your room, only a few days after we left you all
alone, underground, in the rain. So I change the subject. I
tie the scarf around my wrist, and I tell Dante about the
day we bought it.
He watches me quietly as I talk, and his thick eyebrows
lift as he grins. The story isn't really funny, but Dante
laughs a little, too. And for a second, I feel better than I
have in days.
When the moment passes, though, Dante picks up one
of your frilly socks from the floor and starts to cry.
Usually, when someone cries, I don't know what to do.
But right now, Dante smells exactly like you, so that makes
things easier. I pull him toward me, and he buries his wide
face in the narrow space between my cheek and shoulder. I
hold his head and breathe in the vanilla scent of you that's
spilling out of your closet and seeping from your sheets and
that's threaded through your brother's hair.
But then I think about that night. About being with him
while you were all alone. And I pull away.
He stares at me. His cheeks are pink, and his eyelashes
are long and black and wet. His lips, for some reason, seem
swollen, and he looks a little hurt, a little pissed, a little…
something else. I look down at the scarf on my wrist.
“I'm not going home,” I tell him. “But…I can't sleep in
her bed.”
I can't lie on your pillow or crawl under your sheets
now that you won't ever touch them again. I still can't wrap
my head around how gone you really are.
Dante nods, like he understands, and gets up,
scrubbing at his eyes with his sleeve as he leaves your
room. When he comes back, he has two pillows; an air
mattress; and a thin, blue blanket.
He points over his shoulder, to his room across the hall.
“You can sleep in there,” he says, and the thought of
being in his bed makes everything about me run hot. I'm
blushing all over the place, but he's leaning over with his
back to me, plugging in the electric pump for the mattress.
His dark hair is like a curtain between us, so he doesn't
see.
As little as I want him to notice me right now, I still
want to touch him. I want to say thank you to him for
letting me talk about you, which is what I needed from our
friends so badly at school. I want to thank him for offering
me his room, but I don't have the words. It's so bad that I
squeeze my fingers together, just to be sure that I won't
reach for his shoulder.
I step back and take a deep breath to pull myself
together, then shake my head when he turns back around.
“I can't spend the night in your room, Dante.” I say. He
bites his lip in a way that makes me have to look at
anything but him, so I stare at the air mattress. “I have to
sleep in here.”
The house is so quiet that the sound of the electric
pump fills the air like applause. And when Dante starts
drumming his fingers against his knee, I wish I could hear
whatever rhythm was filling his head. I wish I could clap or
sing along.
I watch him, hugging one of the pillows to my chest,
thinking about last summer and how you and I went on the
road with his band for those three days. I start humming,
even though I don't mean to. Instead of leaving when the
mattress is plump with air, Dante looks up at me through
his lashes. His eyes are still a little wet.
I was humming the chorus from “Unmasked,” but I stop
when he looks at me, even though the lyrics are still
floating through my head.
“That's our song,” he says. I assume he means him and
me, so I blush again. A second later, I realize the “our” he
means is probably his band.
“I just meant—”
“I know what you meant.”
Dante would always find me in the audience when the
band played that song live, and grin because he knew it
was my favorite. And he's still looking at me now, so I
wonder if he's thinking about that. I know I am.
“Would it be weird if I sleep in here too?” he asks.
We both just want to be close to you, and this room is
as close as either of us is going to get. I shake my head.
I lie down on the air mattress, and Dante lies on the
floor right beside me. He falls asleep quickly, and his snore
is soft and steady, and I almost feel better in your room
with him here. But I can't sleep. I keep thinking about how
awful school is without you. I keep thinking about Alexa's
party. I reach for my phone and dial my voice mail. I push it
to my ear.
“Summer,” your voice says. “Spring. Winter. Autumn,
my love. Where are you? There are cute boys here, and a
few cute dogs, but there are no cute yous. Let's change
that, and soon.”
You pause, but I know you aren't done. I reach out to
touch a strand of Dante's wavy hair and keep listening.
“I'm sorry, okay? What will it take for you to forgive
me? Should I sing, horribly, in public? Should I sing,
horribly, and embarrass myself on this park bench right
now?”
There's a rustling sound, and I assume it's your collar
rubbing against the phone's receiver. You sigh at this point
in the message. I don't even have to close my eyes to
imagine your puffed cheeks, your rolling eyes. But I do
close my eyes. I'm that desperate to see you.
“Fine,” you say, and then you start singing. It must be a
song your mom taught you because it sounds like Spanish.
And even though this is your version of bad singing, I still
think it sounds pretty good.
“Happy?” you say a minute later, and then, in a much
smaller voice, “Call me.”
I don't even remember what I was mad at you about.
If I were normal, listening to the message would make
me laugh, imagining you standing alone in a crowded park,
singing at the top of your lungs as an apology. Or maybe it
should make me cry, hearing the humanness of you: how
your mood could shift from playful and confident to
vulnerable and sad in only a few minutes. But I'm not
normal, so I don't react at all.
And I also don't sleep. I stare at the back of your
brother's head, his hair tousled and so, so black, and I play
the message again.
BRAM IS BORED so he tries a makeup tutorial.
121,164 views | 2 months ago
“Absolutely not,” I say to my mom.
We're sitting in the kitchen, and she's trying to make
me take the phone. She just called Bram's mother for God
knows what reason. And I don't know how the hell it came
up, but now she knows that I haven't talked to Ms. Lassiter
since Bram died. Not even at the funeral. That might make
me an asshole, but I can barely deal with my own feelings
right now. Between Aden blowing up my phone trying to
find a drummer and having no idea where to start, and
attempting to not fail my senior year of high school, I don't
have the brain space left to deal with her, too.
“Mother. No way. I don't even know what to say.”
I stand up and back away from the phone, but she
follows me with it. I roll my eyes and cross my arms, but
she won't let up.
“I wasn't even friends with him anymore,” I plead, a
whiny last-ditch effort. But my mother covers the
mouthpiece with her hand.
She says, “Logan Gale Lovelace. If you don't take this
phone right this second, you can say goodbye to practicing
with Aden this weekend.”
Even though Aden and I have been hooking up more
than practicing, she doesn't know that.
My mother is tiny and freckled and fair. She's what a
small vanilla latte with a dash of cinnamon sugar sprinkled
on top would look like if the drink could become human.
But she's scary as hell sometimes. She does that little momnod, with her eyebrows lifted and her lips pursed, like she's
saying, Did you hear me?
I drop to my knees and breathe out an impressively
throaty “Ughhhhhhh.”
But then I take the phone from her hand. I put my
thumb over the end button, like I'm gonna hang up without
saying a word, and I toss her an evil smirk. My mom
doesn't miss a beat. She mouths, slowly, deliberately, Don't.
You. Dare.
“Hi, Ms. Lassiter,” I say, my eyes rolling up to the
ceiling. I lie across the floor dramatically, like it's my bed or
a stage. But then Ms. Lassiter clears her throat in the same
rhythm that Bram used to; three beats instead of two: Ah,
ah-hem.
That alone removes the sarcasm from my voice. Knocks
the attitude right out of my posture. I sit up and take a
deep breath. That alone nearly rips me in half.
“Hello, Logan, honey,” she says. Even though she
cleared her throat, every word she speaks is still thick with
sadness. “It's so great to hear your voice.”
I nod. Then I realize she can't see me nodding. I cringe,
thankful she can't see that either. Neither of us says
anything for way too long, and I start to get goose bumps,
something that always happens to me when I feel this
fucking awkward—my skin starts to crawl. Then, because I
don't know what else to say, I mutter, “I'm so sorry for your
loss.”
As soon as I say it, I regret it. And I want to throw the
phone across the room because I feel like such a phony
using that line. A loss is something that's missing or
something you can't find. And Bram was a person—a
vlogger, a football player, the boy I loved, her kid, for fuck's
sake—and we both know exactly where he is: gone.
“Th-that's not what I meant,” I stammer. “I meant to
say…” And my lips start to quiver a bit. I look up, and my
mom is staring at me, like she's done something wrong.
Like she regrets making me take the phone. And I
desperately want to toss out some smartass comment, but I
can't. I'm too busy trying not to cry right here on the cold
tiles of the kitchen floor. So I just stand up and walk away
from her. I go down the hall and lean against the door to
my dad's study. I clench my teeth so tightly that my jaw
starts to hurt.
“I meant to say…this fucking sucks. Excuse my
language, Ms. Lass, but it does,” I say, slipping into what I
used to call her when I went to her apartment every day.
When Bram and I were crazy in love. “I mean, why did
something so messed up have to happen to Bram? He was
one of the good ones, you know? He was…better…more…”
But I don't know what he was better or more than. I
just know that he was.
Then I'm crying, and it's so damn pathetic. Ms. Lassiter
is quiet, but I can hear her soft breathing, so I know she's
still there.
“I never said sorry after our fight.” My voice is so soft
it's almost a whisper. “And now I'll never get to tell him I'm
sorry. It all seems so stupid now.”
She sniffs, and I know that she's crying too, which
makes me feel like the biggest asshole in the world. I push
into my dad's study, and I slip open the drawer where I
know he keeps his bourbon. I lean the phone against my
shoulder, unscrew the bottle, and lift it to my lips, digging
my nails into my palms against the violence of its burn.
“I'm so sorry,” I say. “Is it weird that I miss him, even
though I hadn't talked to him in so long?”
Ms. Lassiter swallows so loudly that I hear it through
the phone. She says, “No, sweetheart, of course it isn't.”
“It's just that…not talking to him by choice, and
knowing that I can never talk to him again, is so much
different than I expected it to be.”
I press my head against the wall and squeeze my eyes
shut, trying to will the tears to stop filling my eyes and
falling. I take another fiery swig from the bottle: hot liquid
courage. I say, “You don't have to answer this if you don't
want to. And I know I'm probably an insensitive jerk for
asking.” I still myself. I wish I were talking to her in person.
“But, Ms. Lass, I feel like I'm losing it. This just doesn't
seem like something he would do, right?”
Ms. Lassiter takes a deep breath.
“Well, he's been different since this summer. We were
put in a tight spot, financially,” she says. “I got laid off and
couldn't find work for a while. And you know how he was.”
“He wanted to fix it,” we both say at the same time.
“Exactly. That's why he started making those videos,”
she continues. “And when they started making money, they
helped for a while. But he changed. He…wasn't really
acting like the Bram you knew, the Bram I knew, anymore.”
We talk a little while longer, and by the time I hang up,
the phone is almost dripping with my tears. I hide my dad's
bourbon behind my back, leave his study, and edge up the
stairs without drawing attention to myself. When I get to
my room, I close my door slowly, even though a part of me
wants to slam it shut.
I put the bourbon on my desk, open my laptop, and turn
on some hardcore rap. The really nasty stuff that mothers
everywhere hate. The angry, gravelly voices just speak
directly to my angsty soul at times like these. People
wouldn't guess that from the music I write, but sometimes I
need this.
My mom starts knocking on my door before the first
verse of the first song ends, and I just turn the music up
louder.
I head to Bram's channel. I should be trying to figure
out where the hell I'm going to find a drummer, and soon,
but instead I take a swig of the bourbon and play a video of
Bram where he's doing a makeup tutorial, which is about
as far as I can get from my lack-of-a-drummer drama. It's
on mute because the music is more important than Bram's
voice right now, and I've watched it so many times lately
that I can read his lips.
“I don't know how some guys do this.” I know that's
what he's saying, even though I can't hear him, as he tries
to steady his hand to apply mascara. I glance down at my
chipped nail polish and then over to the mirror at my kohllined eyes. He says “guys,” not “girls,” and I know that's
because of me.
After I tutored him in math, and he taught me how to
kiss (No, put your lips like this), we moved on to a mutual
education in other things. The first month of our
relationship, he taught me how to catch and throw a
football. I'd perfected a barrel roll by winter, so then it was
my turn. I showed him my dad's record collection, and
made a playlist for him with the best music from every
decade for Christmas. By spring, he'd developed a healthy
love for the good stuff, and that's when he decided to teach
me how to cook.
When it was my turn to play teacher again, I decided
makeup would be fun, mostly because I knew exactly how I
could make his eyes pop like crazy.
I'd gone to his apartment the day our relationship went
to hell to make him up for fun. It was a really hot day in
mid-July, and I remember his window AC unit was on full
blast. I had goose bumps. As I carefully applied liquid liner,
we were staring at each other because I'd told him not to
move. He was so beautiful that I didn't mind. When tears
began to brim along the edge of his lashes, I thought it was
because the tip of the brush was dangerously close to his
eye and the vent from the AC was aimed straight at us. But
then I realized what song was playing, and I grinned. I
thought it might be the music (a song I wrote and recorded
for him), and the sensitive side of Bram, the part that made
him weep when he heard a beautiful song, was the side I
liked best. He didn't know, but it was the song that had
gotten Unraveling Lovely to the top of the leaderboard on
the East Coast. My love for him had basically helped us
qualify for Battle of the Bands, and I was planning to tell
him about it that day.
“God, you're adorable,” I said, picking up the mascara I
was planning to use next. “Are you seriously crying because
of this song?”
But when he looked away from my face and started
wringing his hands, I knew something else was going on. I
put down the makeup.
“At camp,” he started, “we made some prank calls.” He
said it so low, I almost couldn't hear him. He was talking
about football camp. He'd been gone for all of June and
most of July. He'd just gotten back a few days earlier, which
is why he'd missed Unraveling Lovely's mini-tour.
“Okay…,” I said. “So what? You called a strip club and
asked to speak to fucking Rose Thorne or something?” I
grinned. “Oh wait, or Candy…Crush?”
He didn't smile. He swallowed and cleared his throat a
little, with three beats instead of two, like every other
human on Earth.
“No,” he said. “We called the cheer camp. And I talked
to this girl Yara. She's new, but she's starting at Bayside
next year.”
My first thought was, What kind of fuck-up transfers for
their last year of high school? But I bit my lip and stayed
quiet because I didn't know where this was going and he
looked like he had more to say.
“Since the call,” he continued, “we've kinda been
texting. A lot. And she's amazing.” His eyes were shining,
like he was gazing up at the fucking stars instead of slowly
destroying the best part of my life. He kept talking,
sounding like he was her boyfriend instead of mine.
“You'd love her,” he kind of whispered. “And I guess
what I'm trying to say is…I think I already do.”
He said it like it was nothing. Like with those words he
didn't care that he was stomping on my heart.
It was so sudden, and I was so shocked, that I didn't do
anything for a few minutes. I sat there and stared at the
one eye of his that was surround by a decorative, thick
black line.
“Logan,” he said. And that brought me back from
wherever it was I'd gone. I blinked. I registered that the
song he'd put on before our first kiss was playing—a song
he'd added to my playlist to be cute. Then I lost it.
“Seriously?” I started. And I don't even know what else
I said. I know I screamed a lot. I know I threw a few of his
things across his room. I remember being grateful that his
mother wasn't home.
He kept quiet and let me freak out, just waiting for
Hurricane Logan, as he used to call my temper tantrums, to
pass.
When I finally stood still, I was out of breath and
shaking. He looked at me with his sad, green eyes and
asked me to sit beside him on the bed.
His hands were sweaty when he pulled me toward him,
so it was easy for me to twist my wrists out of his grip. I sat
down across the room, where he couldn't touch me.
“I know this changes things,” he said, like it was
raining and we had plans to have a goddamned picnic.
He said, “You're a huge part of my life,” like I was just
a sport he liked to play. “I don't want you to disappear on
me.”
I flared my nostrils and kept staring at him because I
couldn't believe he'd think I'd be okay with him loving
someone else. If I couldn't be with him, I knew I'd have to
disappear. He must have known it, too.
I could never be just his friend. On top of the agonizing
heartbreak, the asshole had left me all alone with this
undeniable knowledge about myself: I liked boys. Bram was
the first boy I'd ever kissed. The first person I'd ever loved.
But loving Bram was one thing; it was easy. It felt right.
Being gay was something else entirely—and it was scary as
hell.
People had already given me shit my whole life about
being weird. The first time I wore nail polish to school, a
kid punched me in the stomach. So to be honest, I was
kinda pissed that I was gay. I was definitely pissed that
Bram wasn't exactly gay. He didn't love me anymore—that
hurt like hell. And the worst part of it all was Yara. That he
was breaking up with me for a girl, when I didn't even
know he liked girls. And on top of everything else, she's a
cheerleader!
I stared at him for too long. At his golden-brown skin
and dark hair. I thought about telling him I loved him one
last time.
“It's possible to love two people at once,” he said, and
that was just way more than I could take.
His eyes were still shining when I stood up, walked
over, and punched him in the face so hard, I broke his nose
and one of my own fingers.
Most people would stop there, but not this guy.
We were both sobbing, covered in snot and blood and
tears. But before I left his room I said it. The worst thing
I've ever said to anyone, and I can never take it back:
I hope you die alone.
I guess I got my wish.
It hits me then, what Ms. Lassiter said: He's been
different since this summer. And I wonder if he was
different, sadder, because of me. Because of what I said in
a moment of rage. A moment I didn't apologize for and that
I'll never be able to take back.
My mom is still knocking. I slam my laptop closed
before I finally go to the door, unintentionally killing the
music because there's no way I want to risk her seeing his
videos on my screen, seeing just how deep my obsession
with Bram goes. I scrub at my face, like there's a hope in
hell I can make myself look human again before she sees
me. But when I open the door I can tell by her face that
mine is still red and blotchy, swollen and ugly.
“Oh, Lo,” she says.
She only calls me that if I'm sick. Or when she's scared.
I've been bigger than her since before I started dating
Bram, but sometimes it seems like she forgets. When she
hugs me, her face just kind of smashes into my chest.
“I had no idea you were this upset.”
I want to say No shit. But I don't.
My chin trembles against the top of her head, and I
squeeze the soft fabric of her sweater so I don't hold her
too tightly. Her wavy red hair sticks to my damp cheeks.
They say that dead people who have unfinished
business with the living become ghosts. That their spirits
linger here, or in limbo somewhere, and that they can't rest
in peace until they've done whatever it is that they needed
to do. But no one ever talks about the living who have
unfinished business with the dead. Where is the plane
they're banished to, and how do they ever find peace
again?
What's to become of fuck-ups like me?
“Logan?” my mom says, bringing me back to my room
and her warm, soft arms. She backs up a little so she can
look up at my face, but then she looks around me, and I
follow her line of sight. She puts her hand on her hip, and
that means trouble.
“Is that your father's bourbon on your desk?”
Shit.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…REVENGE OF
THE TERDS
Looks like: poop
Smells like: poop
Sounds like: poop
(If it looks, smells, and sounds like something, it's probably
that thing. Also: See band name. I wonder if their pun was
intended.)
0/5
I'm exhausted at breakfast the next morning because I ran
until dawn, thinking things through. Mom was sleeping
when I got back, so she has no idea I was out that late. Her
eyes are puffy this morning. She's playing her go-to sad
music almost as loudly as I was playing Unraveling Lovely
last night, so I know she probably spent most of her time in
the shower crying. She's never let me see her lose it, but I
heard it in her voice last night on the phone. I know the
signs of her sadness. I kind of want to lean toward her now
and say something annoying like I thought we'd go deaf
from music this loud? to make her smile and say something
like You can blast your music when you own a house. But I
don't.
Her dark eyes linger on me for a beat too long when I
first step into the kitchen (probably because I actually
ironed my shirt today), but she's the one who taught me to
dress the way I want to feel. This lesson is why Sasha had
so many floral dresses and brightly colored sweaters—she
always wanted to look better than she felt. And since I want
to try to be better, for Mom, I thought a wardrobe change
was in order. I'm still wearing jeans (Rome wasn't built in a
day). But I thought a nice shirt wouldn't hurt. So Mom
looks at me but doesn't say anything. She's dressed to the
corporate nines as usual, so maybe she just gets it.
We fall into our normal routine. In the mornings, Mom
and I move around each other like planets in orbit. We're
used to living without Sasha, because she was in the
hospital so often, but somehow, she still left this gaping
hole right through the middle of everything. Sometimes the
morning is the only time Mom and I will see each other all
day, but we still don't say much.
When I go to the cabinet and pull down the cereal,
Mom is at the sink, filling the kettle for her tea. I open the
fridge for the milk and I grab Mom a yogurt while I'm in
there. I don't toss it to her, the way I normally would. I set
it on the table beside her, and she seems surprised by the
change. She had already put down her mug, prepared to
catch it, but she just says “Thanks.” She hands me a
banana as I fill my bowl, and then we both look at the
empty toaster.
If Sasha were home, I'd drop the bread and Mom would
lay out the butter and jam. Even if she were at the hospital,
I'd text Sasha and ask what she wanted and then show
Mom my phone with her answer. But Sasha isn't here.
Sasha isn't anywhere. So I say “See ya,” and Mom kisses
my forehead before I push open the door.
It starts then. The hungry kind of missing-Sasha that
makes me feel like she's just out of reach, not gone forever,
and I'm just not trying hard enough to get to her. The thing
inside me that's always on edge drops off its cliff. And I
don't know if it's because I'm tired or if I'll never get used
to something as simple as not making toast for my sister,
but as I climb onto my bike, I feel overwhelmed and alone
again. I manage to make it to the end of the block before
I'm crying, my chest tightening, like someone has me
pinned and is sitting on top of my body. I pull up behind an
empty bus stop shelter and lay my bike in the grass before
sinking down beside it.
I take out my phone and pull up photo after photo of
Sasha, and when I can swallow without it making my entire
throat ache, I open my browser. The cursor blinks defiantly
inside the search bar, and my thumbs hover over the
keyboard for only a second.
I type: Are you still a twin if your twin dies?
I slowly scan the results, but before I can even find an
answer, I see the word “twinless” so many times that my
throat tightens up like it did at the club, and starts to hurt
again.
I didn't even know that was a word. It shouldn't be a
word.
I stare down at Sasha's plastic hospital bracelet. I can
hardly make out her name anymore because the ink is so
badly faded. But it's there, just barely: MALONE, SASHA. I kiss
it the way I've kissed it a few times a day since the night I
slipped it off her skinny wrist and onto mine. I look back at
the screen (at the unbearable “twinless” search results)
and throw my phone into my backpack.
—
At school, I wait for Rohan in the parking lot. I wave to
Callie and Deedee as I'm locking up my bike. Deedee
comes over and hugs me, and Callie asks if I listened to the
edit of her latest BAMF podcast. “Not yet,” I tell her. “This
weekend for sure.”
She points at me and says, “You'd better.” She looks me
up and down, her eyes settling on my shirt. “Why are you
dressed like you have an interview?”
“Just, you know, trying something new. ‘Dress to
impress' and all that?”
Callie frowns. Then she shrugs. “If you say so.”
Deedee loops her arm through mine the way she always
does, like she doesn't want me to float away.
“Come in with us,” she says.
“I'm waiting for Ro,” I tell her. “I need him to help me
with something. Save me a seat in first period?” She pouts
a little, but she nods before heading inside. Callie waves
and follows her.
I joke around with a few kids from cross-country, and
borrow some chemistry notes from a guy in my class, and
still no Rohan. My fingers are getting cold, and I'm just
about done waiting when Jerome spots me and heads in my
direction.
“Hey, Shay,” he says, and somehow my name sounds
different when it's coming through his lips. He's wearing a
fedora today, and a big overcoat, so he looks a bit like an
old-school mobster. His fingers stay tucked in his pockets,
but the way he gently taps my arm with his elbow makes
me wish he'd touch me with his hands.
“You ready for today?” he says. He's not referring to a
test or anything. It's just something he always asks me, like
every morning is something to prepare for, something
harder than the day before it. And I guess, sometimes, days
do feel that way. I smile.
“Yeah, I guess.”
“Cool,” he says. He bends his knees and cups his hands
over his mouth. His rings shine as he blows against his
fingers and watches me. He has bristly black hair that I
always want to touch, and his skin and eyes are almost the
same shade of coppery brown. There's something so
familiar about his face, even though I'd never seen a face
like it before I met him. If I look at him for long enough, I
start to feel a little less lost.
And how do you tell someone that their face is your
compass, your North Star, without sounding like a weirdo?
My eyes flicker from his eyes to his lips. I'm trying to
be a new and improved version of myself, but I think it's
okay if I still kiss him. So I kiss him, because it's easy and
he lets me, and I feel in control of my body and my life
during every precious second our mouths are touching. I
wonder how these kisses make him feel, but I don't ask.
“It's cold,” he says. “Walk in with me?”
I scan the lot one more time, but I still don't see Rohan.
“ 'Kay,” I say.
—
When I find Ro at lunch he's bouncing the way he always
does right before band practice, like the music is under his
skin or inside his bones and it can't wait to get out. But
when he sees me leaning against his locker, his walking
immediately loses a bit of its rhythm.
He breaks away from his other friends. I wave to them
as they move farther down the hall.
“Hey,” he says, stopping a few feet away from me. He
dips his thumbs into his pockets and looks at me through a
mop of dark, messy hair. His eyes are a murky blackishbrown, like tea leaves or rain-soaked branches. They make
me want to tell him everything.
“Hey,” I say. “Look, I'm sorry about last night. I totally
freaked, but can we talk?”
I try not to look as pathetic as I feel when I reach out
my hand, which is full of my weak attempt at an apology—
watermelon taffy. This flavor is his favorite, and his breath
is always grossly sweet with it. He doesn't reach for it right
away, which makes something inside me flicker, like a dying
lightbulb, or a star. I bite my lip and lift my hand a little
higher.
He keeps watching me, like he's trying to see if my
apology is real. Or because I look exactly like his exgirlfriend.
I'm wearing another one of Sasha's beanies today, so I
pull it off, hoping to look less like her and more like me.
This one says BAD HAIR DAY, and I got it for Sasha a few days
after she shaved the last of her hair. She thought it was
hilarious.
“Of course we can talk,” he says, hitching his bag
higher onto his shoulders with both thumbs. “But I'm still
pissed you missed so much of my set.”
I grin and push away from the lockers. I stick my arm
between his backpack and his body, and I hug him from the
side as he puts in his combination. “Please, please, please
forgive me?” I beg.
“Fiiiiiine,” he says.
Rohan is tall and narrow, with wiry guitarist arms and
lengthy runner legs, and I'm built pretty much just like
him: long-limbed, boyish, and flat (just about everywhere). I
can see our reflection in the mirror he has on the interior of
his locker door. He musses his hair. I muss it too.
He ducks and says, “This doesn't happen by accident,
you know,” gesturing at his sloppy hair, his crooked,
dimpled grin. I roll my eyes.
“Whatever. So,” I say. I turn around and glance at the
thick swirl of bodies all around me, and it makes me feel a
little dizzy, so I turn back to Rohan.
“There's something I need your help with.”
“Okaaay,” he says, turning to look at me.
“I need you to cover the Revenge of the Terds show
tonight. For BAMF.”
It isn't like Rohan to be quiet for long, but he doesn't
say anything for almost a whole minute (which seems like
forever).
“Why?” he finally asks. He glances down at me. “And
what are you wearing?”
I roll my eyes. “Oh my god. It's just a shirt.”
He flicks the collar and points to the center of it. “It has
buttons,” he says, smirking. “It's not all wrinkly. Wait, did
you iron it?”
“Can you focus?” I ask. “The show, tonight. Can you do
it?”
“Why?” he says again. “You've never asked me to do
anything for BAMF before. If I remember correctly, you
said it would be a ‘conflict of interest.' ”
He's right, I did say that. And it would be since he has a
new band on the scene, and BAMF prides itself on its
objectivity. But there are more important things than BAMF
(though Callie would be pissed if I ever said that out loud).
Plus, if I'm being honest, Sasha's terrible review of
Revenge is already posted. I don't care too much about
missing them, and anyway, I don't want to be out late
another night this week.
“I have to study,” I say.
Rohan blinks at me. “You have to study,” he repeats,
and it doesn't sound like he's asking me a question, but I
nod.
He closes his locker slowly and presses the back of his
hand against my forehead and then my cheek. I slap his
hand away, and he laughs.
“Since when do you study?” he asks.
“Since now!” I say.
Rohan's face changes then. He squints at me.
“Sorry,” he says. He stuffs his hands into his pockets.
“Is this about what happened last night? I'm sorry I played
Sasha's song, okay? I'm not going to play it again. I
promise. You don't have to skip tonight because of me.”
Rohan lets his messy hair fall across his forehead. He
hides his face if there is even the smallest chance he might
blush or look sad. So now he hides his face every single
time he talks about my sister.
“It's not that,” I say, touching his shoulder. “I swear. I
just have a chemistry test. Look,” I say. I unzip my
backpack. “I borrowed notes from a kid in my class.”
Rohan looks at me, as if the notes aren't proof enough.
“I believe that you have a test,” he says. “But you don't
miss shows.” He doesn't ask out loud, but I hear the
question anyway: What else is going on?
I stick the notes back into my bag. “It's Mom,” I tell
him. “I don't want to stress her out. She's been worried
about Sasha for practically my whole life. I don't want her
to start worrying about me now. So I'm just trying to pull
some of my grades out of the gutter. For her.”
“I get that, I guess.” He nods and starts tapping his
fingers on his thigh. “Speaking of BAMF, I saw the photo
you posted last night,” he says. I look over, and his eyes are
playful. “Trying to get hired to manage another band?” he
asks.
I smile, knowing that he's changing the subject to make
me feel better.
“I already told you,” I say, rolling my eyes and playing
along. “I'm done working for amateurs.”
Rohan smiles. “That was really cool of you. We got, like,
two hundred fifty new followers from that one post.”
“No way,” I say. I take out my phone and go to his
band's account. They only had seventy-three followers
yesterday. Now they have more than three hundred.
“You didn't even hear our songs,” Rohan continues.
“Well, I guess I have faith in your musical abilities.
Besides, Callie and Deedee said you didn't suck,” I say.
But Rohan shakes his head. He's done joking around.
“No,” he says. “Thank you. Really.”
I shrug.
“So, will you cover for me?” I ask again. “I'm not telling
Dee and Cal because they'll be pissed, but if I totally flake
without even sending a replacement, Callie might actually
murder me.”
“Deedee will probably cry if she has to be by herself at
any point, and you know Callie is a lone wolf,” Rohan says. I
know he's right, but I need to pass this test.
“So maybe stick with Deedee as much as you can, too?”
I smile really big, like “please” is written across my front
teeth.
He clears his throat, like he's about to make a speech,
and I'm kind of expecting him to say no and then give me a
long list of all the reasons why he can't do it: his band is
performing; he needs to practice; Revenge of the Terds
sucks; he doesn't want to.
But all he ends up saying is “Sure.”
JAN. 21, 9:09 P.M.
I went to the library, but I couldn't decide what to check
out. I just stared at the shelves.
Then I took my sketchbook with me to the beach, but my
fingers were trembling too much to hold the pencil.
It was pretty pathetic.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Jan. 22, 6:57 p.m.
Subject: <none>
Your brother texted and said he's coming over. He wants to
talk, so I'm out in the cold waiting for him. I like him, Tavi. I
don't know what to do about it.
My swing set will always remind me of you. I can't even
count how many secrets we whispered to each other out
here; how many times you braided long blades of grass into
my hair. How often we fought and then apologized to each
other while pumping our legs, hurtling ourselves through
space, like wind itself could solve all of our problems.
My mom finds me out there with my earbuds in and my
sketchbook open. I'm sitting on the ground by the swing
set, and it's freezing, but she sits down in the grass with
me anyway.
I pull my earbuds out, but I can still hear Unraveling
Lovely's song blaring through them from where they land
in my lap. My mom eyeballs my phone, like she's about to
lecture me on ruining my hearing, but I guess she decides
not to. Instead, she threads her fingers through mine and
presses on each of my knuckles, like she's playing the piano
—something she's done since I was small.
She brings the back of my cold hand to her warm cheek
and looks away when she starts crying, but I still notice her
using her shoulder to awkwardly wipe her face.
“What are you drawing?” she asks. I aim the blank
page I've been staring at toward her.
“Am I still getting the silent treatment?”
I shake my head. “I was going to do the swings, but I
just started thinking…” I don't finish. I can't stop thinking,
mostly about you. I poke holes in the blank page with the
hand that isn't holding hers, the one that still holds the
pencil.
“You know it's okay to be mad, right?” my mom asks.
“To scream into a pillow or scribble all over a page in your
sketchbook. To even break something if you need to?”
I roll my eyes a little because she is so dramatic. I
shrug.
“Well, I'll just have to be pissed enough for the both of
us,” she says, and her voice sounds like someone has just
hit her in the stomach.
I look at the rest of her face. Her tears are angry ones.
I can tell because when my mom sad-cries, her mouth is
turned down and her light eyebrows crowd together in the
center of her forehead. When she angry-cries, her nostrils
flare, and she turns a little red, and she presses her lips
into a tight, thin line.
She stands up and kicks at the base of the swing set,
where it meets the frozen ground. She kicks it again and
again.
“Jesus, Mom,” I say, crab-walking backward a little. But
she keeps kicking.
“It shouldn't have happened,” she says between the
solid sounds of her sneaker hitting the wood. “Not. Like.
That.”
She's breathing hard when she sits back down a minute
or so later. Tears are all over her face, and her thin, blond
hair is falling out of its ponytail.
“And it should never have happened to our Tavia.”
She says it as if you dying broke a law of physics. Like
it should have been impossible.
I nod and pull my sleeves over my hands, wishing I
could be more like her. Wishing I could get what I'm feeling
inside, out. For some reason, I pick that moment to tell her
the story of the day I explained to you what adopted meant,
right here by the swings. We were both seven when my
family moved in, and you asked me why Willow and I didn't
look like our parents a week later.
“By then we'd already decided to be best friends,” I tell
her, and she laughs. “And Tavia cried when she found out
someone gave us up. She couldn't understand how
someone wouldn't want to keep me,” I say. “She didn't
know someone could decide not to keep a kid.”
I still remember how you looked, like it didn't make
sense. That made me feel…I don't know. Special. Like I was
extraordinary. I'd never felt like that before. But being
friends with you always made me feel that way.
“She cried?” my mom asks, and I smile a little and nod.
“That's just like our girl, isn't it?” she says, looking up
at the cloudy sky. “What I really came out here to tell you is
that we're having kimchi jjigae for dinner.”
My mom's been watching cooking shows and videos
online and making more Korean food lately. I think she feels
like the big flavors, harsh spices, and strong scents will
fortify me with the kind of resilience I need to get through
this—losing you. Maybe she fears I'm missing some kind of
strength I would have had if I'd grown up in Korea instead
of in a big house on Long Island.
“Also,” she continues, “Dante's here. I told him to let
me check on you first. Do you want to see him?”
I always want to see him, but something about that
feels like the wrong thing to say.
So I just nod. She stares, like she's trying to see inside
me. You know the look: Raised eyebrows. A jutted-out chin.
I smile so she'll believe me, wondering how I got so lucky. I
was born into a family that couldn't keep me. But then I got
her.
“I promise. It's okay.”
“Ask him if he wants to eat with us because I'll make
the soup a little less spicy if he's staying.”
She squeezes my shoulder, then walks back to the
house. A minute later, Dante steps through my back
doorway.
His cheeks are pink, and his breath puffs in front of his
face like smoke, but I try not to look at him for too long
once he gets up close. He looks more like you now that he's
the only person walking around with that hair and those
eyes and a strange, thicker version of your lips.
There's more to it than that, though. Since I don't look
much like Willow, and I obviously don't look at all like my
parents, I'm jealous. There's no reason for me to feel this
way, but I kind of hate that you belong to him in a way
you'll never belong to me. In a way my own family even
doesn't. You and Dante were a matching set, with barely a
year between your birthdays.
But we were a pair too.
He sits on one of the swings and hangs his hands
between his knees. His text said he wanted to talk, but it's
ages before either of us says anything. I'm the one who
breaks the silence.
“I'm worried about your parents,” I tell him, because
your mom won't stop moving. She's reorganized the garage
and raked the yard and cleaned the house from top to
bottom at least half a dozen times. Except your room. She
still goes to her book club meetings and volunteers at the
art gallery on the weekends. I don't know for sure, but I
think she still wants to go on the senior trip as a
chaperone, even though Dante said “Hell, no” when I asked
if he was still going. I'm skipping it too.
Your dad, on the other hand, is motionless. He goes to
work during the week, but if he's anything like how he is at
your house when he's at his office, I don't see how anything
gets done. Whenever I'm over, I might see him get up to
use the bathroom or to make coffee (never to eat), but then
he just sits down again. I've only heard him say two
complete sentences since the morning you died.
Dante shrugs, like he doesn't care that his parents are
falling apart, but a pained expression crosses his face. His
fingers go all twitchy, and he starts chewing on his bottom
lip before he says, “I didn't come here to talk about them.”
He takes a deep breath, and I don't know why, but I
pick up my pencil again. I start sketching the oval outline of
his face. I feel something inside me open as I look for
differences between his face and yours, and I draw them.
First I sharpen the shape of the oval to echo his square
jawline.
“I'm listening,” I say.
“I know what you're thinking,” he starts. And I wait. I
add his stubble to my drawing—another difference I can
cling to. A million tiny dots and super-short black lines all
over his chin and cheeks.
I glance up at him and then back down at my
sketchbook.
“What am I thinking, Dante?” I ask.
He stands up and starts pacing, and I want him to sit
back down so I can keep adding to his face on the page. I
need to see his long, dark eyelashes (they're straighter
than yours). I can't get his nose right (broader than yours
was, and a little crooked from when he broke it) without
having him in front of me.
“You're thinking that you were with me when it was
happening, right? You're thinking you should have been at
that dumb party with her.”
He jams his hands into his hair, and I look back down at
paper-Dante, because that version of him doesn't have eyes
filled with tears. Paper-Dante doesn't have eyebrows yet, so
he can't frown.
“I know you, Autumn. I know you're freaking out, even
though you're just sitting there.” He throws his arms in my
direction, like sitting is a crime. “You're thinking this is on
you.”
I feel myself pressing my lips together like my mom did
when she was angry-crying, and I wonder if expressions
can make you look like someone you love, even if your
features are from strangers on the other side of the world.
He shakes his head, but he doesn't tell me it wasn't my
fault.
His voice goes all shaky as he says, “You're not the only
one who feels like that.”
He comes over to me then, and sits down in the grass
right in front of me. And God, I feel like I might burst into
flames when he reaches for my hand. But he just slips the
pencil from my fingers. He sticks the pencil between his
teeth as he pulls off his gloves and shoves them into his
back pocket. Then he reaches for my sketchbook, turns the
page, and draws a quick, sloppy portrait of me. The only
part he gets right is my messy, elbow-length hair.
I take the sketchbook back and trace over a few of his
most carelessly drawn lines. I darken my narrow eyes, and
I make my cheeks a little rounder. And just when I'm
almost done, lost in a self-portrait he started, he touches
my arm, and I shift away from the weight of his warm hand,
like it's a reflex.
“So, what?” he asks loudly. Meanly. “I can't even touch
you now?”
I open my mouth, but no sound comes out. I close the
sketchbook and watch real-Dante's eyes turn stormy.
“That's it, then? This, whatever this is—was—is done?”
I shake my head, because the thought of losing him
terrifies me. But a second later, I shrug, because I don't
know how I can keep him.
“You're not the only one hurting, Autumn,” he says
through his teeth. I think about Willow telling me the same
thing, and I feel a little ashamed.
“I know.”
He looks at me, and his black eyes are shining like
they're made of glass. He clenches his teeth, and his jaw
moves, as if a tiny wild animal is stuck inside his cheek.
“I missed you at school today,” I say.
I don't add “and yesterday” or “and all week.” I want to
tread lightly because ever since your accident, Dante is a
stick of dynamite with a lit fuse. But my change of subject
has the desired effect. The sentence calms him down, puts
out his always-burning fire. He squeezes his eyes shut and
stands up. Paces for a second.
“Yeah?” is all he says back.
“I know it's only been two weeks since…But are you
going to come back soon?”
He shrugs and runs his fingers through his dark hair
again, looking out across my yard. I stand up too and tug at
his jacket so he'll look back down at me.
I want to tell him that I feel better when he's around.
That as complicated as things are between us, at least I feel
a little less alone. But I can't figure out the right words. I
swallow, hard, before I say anything, but I don't look away
from him.
“It would be easier, for me, if you were there.”
It's a selfish thing to say, to put on him. I feel like I'm
tricking him into coming back, even though it's true. I can
barely be with him, but I'm so sorry, Tavia, I don't think I
can be without him, either. And I know there's something
not fair about that. It's not fair to him or me. Or you.
I squeeze my fingers together and yank at my sleeves
because my hands are shaking, and Dante thinks I'm doing
it because I'm cold. He pulls his gloves out of his pocket
and hands them to me. I hesitate, but then I take them just
for something to do.
“No one else knows what it's like,” I say as I pull on the
too-big gloves. I look down at my hands, at the flat flaps of
fabric at the end of each of my fingers, so he can't see my
eyes. There aren't any tears, but there doesn't need to be
for Dante to know what I'm feeling.
“Not even Alexa or Margo. Definitely not Faye.”
I don't know if he gets it, because things are different
with boys. They don't claim one another the way girls do.
They don't learn who they are because of their friends.
“I hate taking the bus without her. Being at school
without her. I text Willow constantly or look through Tavia's
pictures, just to be less miserable.”
I even tell him that I listen to that one Unraveling
Lovely song, “Unmasked,” over and over again, to drown it
all out, and how it doesn't really work. It's the most I've
said at once in days.
Then I bring up Perry again. “He keeps talking to me,” I
say. “Not just small talk. He's talking about her.”
“He's still bugging you every day?” Dante asks.
“Pretty much.”
I know Perry's sad. He's been in love with you since we
were eleven. But God. I can't talk to him. Especially since
he's the whole reason you were even in your car that night.
I hate talking to anyone lately who isn't Dante. Or you.
I reach for his hand. I squeeze it once and let it go.
“I don't know what I want yet, with us,” I say. Dante
crosses his arms. His eyes are hurt. He knows what he
feels, what he wants, but he stays silent.
“I don't know what you want me to say,” I whisper.
And because your brother's heart beats for everyone
but himself, he rubs his eyes and nods.
“I'll pick you up on Monday,” he says. I'm about to ask
if he wants to stay for dinner, but before I can, he walks
away and slams my back door.
I don't know if his words mean he'll drive me to school
and drop me off, or if he'll actually come inside and go to
classes, but it's a place to start.
When I pick up my pencil to start drawing again, I stop
short.
I'm still wearing his gloves.
BRAM IS BORED so he sees how many times he can scare
his mom in an hour.
10,231 views | 3 months ago
I guess when you lock your mother out of your room for a
solid half hour while you blast angry music and drink your
dad's expensive stolen booze, you're not exactly a picture
of mental health. So it's no surprise that I'm sitting in a
shrink's office right now.
I take out my phone to check Bram's channel for new
comments, and to look at the Battle of the Bands
leaderboard, something I do every now and then. Obviously,
my unnamed, drummerless band isn't on it, but before I
even type a word I slip the phone right back into my pocket
because I'd forgotten that none of my apps work. My
parents canceled my data, so the only thing my phone is
good for now is texting. Or talking. Or trying to fix that
same damn song because I don't have any new ideas.
I have a text from Aden that I don't want to answer. So
I look at the shrink. I don't want to talk to her, but I know if
I refuse to say anything here, I won't get my data back.
The psychiatrist has tiny, pale green eyes and a nose
that's a little too big for her face. But she's young, and
healthy-looking—one of those people who could model
because her features are so originally arranged. I don't
know how to describe it exactly. She's not beautiful, not
even close. But something about her face is…striking.
Anyway, her name is Gertrude Stein, like the writer, and
she has a similarly bad haircut. Her hideous shoes and
brown sweater make me sad. Wasted potential, if you ask
me.
“So, Logan,” Gertrude says.
“Trudy,” I say back.
She cringes a little, and says, “Gross.”
I kind of grin because I was not expecting Gertrude to
say “gross.”
“Only my grandmother calls me that. You can call me
Dr. Stein, or Gertrude, obviously.”
I smile again. “Okay. Trudy,” I say.
She looks down at her notebook and doesn't
acknowledge me repeating the name. It bugs me a little
that it doesn't seem to bug her.
“Your mother tells me that you're here to talk about
someone you lost pretty suddenly around Christmas. And I
wanted to start by saying I'm incredibly sorry for your loss.
Would you like to tell me about him?”
I hate every second of this, but her casual mention of
my mom isn't lost on me. I wonder if she meant it as the
thinly veiled threat it came across as. I look right at her.
“What else did my mom tell you?” I ask, frowning.
“Just that you seem to be having some trouble dealing
with what's happened.” She smiles. “I'm only here to help,
Logan.”
I let my eyes roam around her office. Then I stand up,
walk to the window, and squint at the tiny people eighteen
floors and a fancy-ass lobby away from me. I watch a plane
disappear into the clouds while I fiddle with the thin strings
of my hoodie. I flip up the hood and then yank the strings
tight. When I turn back around, the fabric is over my eyes,
but I can feel that the shrink is still watching me.
She probably thinks she's hot shit with her swanky
Manhattan office. I loosen and lower my hood. I run my
finger along the windowsill, and I make a big fuss about the
city grime and dust that's there, but you'd never notice it if
you were sitting on the leather sofa.
She writes something down. I stick my hand into my
pocket and tap the surface of my useless phone. I sigh,
feeling stuck.
“Well,” I start. “He was my ex. The guy who died.”
“I see. How long had you two dated?”
“Nine months,” I say, walking back over to the couch. I
pluck a tissue from the tissue box. I rip it up into tiny
pieces in my lap. “We got together first semester junior
year, and we broke up this past summer.”
“And why did you break up?” she asks.
I gnaw on my thumbnail while I try to decide how much
to tell her. I've never said any of this stuff out loud, and I
hate that I have to say it for the first time to a stranger. But
I can feel the weight of my phone. It slides around in my
pocket as I shift in my seat. I don't have much of a choice,
so I keep talking.
“He was interested in someone else. A girl. We hadn't
spoken since the day he told me about her.” I hear the
poison in my voice when I say the word “girl.” I don't try to
hide the disgust on my face, either.
“Were you upset that he was interested in someone else
or that the someone else was a girl?”
“I mean, it would have sucked regardless, obviously. I
fucking loved him.”
Gertrude nods. “Of course.”
“But yeah, I guess it added insult to injury that it was
some basic bitch cheerleader and not another guy. How
could I even compete with a girl?”
“You can't,” she says, shrugging.
“Exactly,” I say. “If it had been another guy, I could
have convinced him I was the better choice. But if he
wanted a girl, he couldn't also want me.”
Gertrude doesn't ask “How do you know what he
wanted?” But something about her face makes me feel like
that's what she's thinking. She makes a few notes in her
notebook, and I notice that her short hair has a curl to it. I
wonder if it would look like Bram's if she grew it out.
“Do you want to talk about how he died?”
I told him I hoped he'd die alone, and then he did, I
think.
But “Suicide” is what I say out loud. “Which makes zero
sense. He loved his life. I don't get how he could just off
himself like that. The Bram I knew never would have.”
I didn't mean to say his name, but now that it was out,
that urge I always feel to say it again and again tricks my
brain into talking about him more.
“Bram was so happy,” I say. “His favorite quote was
that cheesy one from Slaughterhouse-Five, you know the
one I mean?”
“ ‘Everything was beautiful, and nothing hurt'?”
Gertrude asks.
I point at her. “Yes. He said that all the time. He was a
hopeless romantic if I ever saw one. He was one of the
happiest people I knew.”
My eyes get a little blurry.
Gertrude straightens her glasses but doesn't say
anything for a while, like she knows (or hopes) I'm working
something out in my head. But I can tell she's dying to
know what I'm thinking. I look up at the wall, and I can't
stop staring at my own pale reflection in the gilded mirror
she has hanging up right behind her head. There are
shadows under my eyes, and even my freckles look a little
faded. I pull the hood back on, but it doesn't really help.
Sometimes when I look into a mirror for too long, I
start to look like someone else.
She keeps watching me, so I stare back and say, “Isn't
it weird that eventually, someone will say your name for the
very last time, and then it will never be said again?”
This occurred to me when I was high last week, and it's
only made my obsession with Bram's name worse.
Gertrude kind of frowns, but she looks interested.
“What do you mean?” she asks.
“Think about it,” I say, leaning forward. “It might not be
for twenty or thirty or fifty years, but eventually, your mom
will say it for the last time, or your friends, or me.” I look at
her, and she's still watching me, wondering what I'll say
next.
When I had this weird epiphany, it freaked me out
pretty badly; that someone's name could just disappear like
that. So every day since, I've whispered or shouted or said
“Bram” out loud whenever I'm alone, thinking about him.
I'm sure Trudy would have a field day with that if she knew
about it.
“Yes,” she says. “I guess that's true. Are you worried
about that happening to Bram?” she asks.
Duh, I think.
I sit back and shrug. I know he's gone, but I won't let
his name disappear. I don't say that to Gertrude, though.
“Have you found anything that helps?”
Before the chain of thoughts that fills my head—
drinkingsmokinghookingup—even split into individual
ideas, she puts up a hand and says, “And I don't mean any
of the self-destructive behaviors that landed you in this
office.”
I think about it. I let my mind drift back over the last
month. I've felt like shit so often since he died that the few
moments I've felt okay that aren't
drinkingsmokinghookingup bubble to the surface almost
immediately.
Aden helps a little, even when we're not kissing,
because he's so annoying about the band stuff. He keeps
me focused, I guess. And then, for some weird reason, the
phone call with Ms. Lassiter pops into my head. Even
though it was hard, it was kind of a relief talking to
someone who knew and loved Bram—someone I didn't have
to hide my real feelings from.
“I talked to Bram's mom,” I tell Gertrude. “She's the
only person who I've told how I really feel about
everything. She told me some stuff about him, too. How
he'd changed.”
Gertrude says, “Did that help?”
When I nod, Gertrude takes her glasses off and chews
on the earpiece.
“Maybe talking to other people who were close to Bram
near the end of his life will help give you perspective on
where he was emotionally when he died. Maybe if you
understand how he was feeling, you can feel better. Talking
to Ms. Lassiter seems to have given you the beginning of
what might lead to closure, a place where you feel safe
enough to share. Grief is tricky, and it's something that will
never go away. But I think getting what you're feeling out
in the open is part of the first step toward finding peace.”
I nod again, like I agree, but she doesn't know that I
practically wished this on him. She doesn't know how much
I hate myself because of what I said, and that no degree of
talking can fix me when I don't trust my own voice. She
didn't hear Ms. Lassiter say He's been different since this
summer. I don't know if I deserve closure; I definitely don't
deserve to forget or move on. But I like the idea of talking
to people who were close to him. Maybe they can help me
figure out what happened—how he went from the Bram I
knew to a stranger who wanted to die. And if I can figure
that out, maybe for the first time in months, I can write a
song that isn't about him.
—
As soon as I get home, I log on to my mom's computer. She
locked mine in a drawer but left hers out in the open, like I
don't know her super-obvious password (it's my birthday)
and like incognito windows don't exist.
Like I do every day, I lie to myself. I sit down and swear
that I won't look at Bram's profile, pictures, or videos. I
read some news. I try working on the song, but everything I
come up with is crap. I check out a word generator to try to
think of a name for the new band. I even do some
homework. But I know I'm fighting a losing battle.
I haven't watched Bram's sex tape since people started
giving him so much crap about it online, but now that I've
been given a directive to talk to people close to Bram, I feel
a little more justified being as obsessed with him as I am. I
decide to skip his profile, pictures, and the videos on his
channel. I go looking for the sex tape instead.
The day it first showed up I watched it over and over,
trying to figure out who the other dude in the video was. I
didn't watch it right after Bram died because the cops were
still investigating everything, and after they questioned me,
I was paranoid as fuck. Now that they know what really
happened, and I know I'm not on some kind of watch list or
anything, I can watch it again. If I can figure out who the
guy in the video is, maybe I can talk to him about Bram.
The sex tape was originally on Bram's channel, and he
deleted it as soon as he realized it was there. But by then,
thanks to his mild Internet celebrity, dozens of people had
already downloaded it, taken screenshots, uploaded it
elsewhere, and shared it all over the place. I heard more
than one person say that I'd released it because I was
bitter and wanted to ruin Bram and Yara's relationship.
That rumor died pretty fast because, even though it's dark
in the video, it's obvious that the other guy isn't a ginger.
Lots of people said it could have been recorded before Yara
even came to our school. I just hope it was recorded after
he'd already dumped me. But who knows.
It's been yanked from every respectable site, but
nothing ever really dies on the Internet. I know a few shady
sites that have probably reposted it.
It only takes about fifteen minutes to find it. And then,
there he is. The first frame of the video is Bram's face
really close to the screen, like he was just using the laptop
normally and the webcam came online without him
knowing that it had turned on. His eyes are so green that
they seem electric, and his lash line is so dark that it almost
looks as if he's wearing makeup. His hair is short, so you
can't tell that it has that crazy curl, and it's sticking up a
bit in the front. When he smiles, my eyes blur with tears.
He just looks so much like himself: young and beautiful and
alive.
I can hear another guy's voice in the background, but
it's muffled. Bram laughs at something the guy says before
standing up. He's already naked and so hot that I close my
eyes for a second, slowing the thoughts his body brings to
my mind. I'd forgotten how tall he was—he's towering over
the other guy, whose back is to the camera. At nearly six
foot four, Bram was even taller than me.
They don't really waste much time, and though I can
never make out the face of the second guy, I can see all of
Bram. His broad shoulders, the trail of hair below his belly
button, the two dimples in the small of his back, just above
the tight curve of his ass. I watch the video again and
again, until I'm remembering what it was like to be with
him.
The jealousy hits me like a shot of whiskey—I'm
burning from the inside out. The feeling that he's mine has
never fully gone away. There's no angle where the other
guy's face is showing, and I already knew that, but I got
myself all riled up anyway. I kill the browser and close the
laptop. I walk away, trying to calm myself back down.
I leave my room and go into my dad's study. I don't
admit to myself that I'm looking for booze, but I'm looking
for booze. I put on one of his records and stare longingly at
his liquor cabinet, but there's nothing I can do about the
locked glass door. I contemplate putting my fist through it,
but it seems like a bad plan.
I get drunk on music instead. I sit in my dad's big
leather chair and put my feet up while the first track plays.
I pace while humming to the next few, hoping inspiration
for my own music hits. When it doesn't, I stare through his
window and outright sing the last song. I leave his office,
but I let the record restart—music playing to an empty
room.
Luckily for me, my parents are out for the evening, but
that means they're calling the house phone every goddamn
half hour to make sure I don't go anywhere. It could be
worse. They could be here hovering, like I'm a four-year-old
with scissors, the way they did all weekend after my mom
found the bourbon in my room.
Back at my mom's computer, I go to Bram's channel
and watch a video where he sneaks up on his mom a bunch
of times in a row and shouts “Boo!” She spills soda all over
herself the first time and nearly smashes a vase the second.
By the third time, I thought she would have wised up, but
she almost rips a page out of the book she's reading.
It goes on and on (he gets her eight times), and as I
smile at his antics, I scroll down through the comments.
There are a few of the clickbaity memorial posts, like RIP, I
was here the day he died and Live fast. Die young. And
Yara posted an entire goddamn poem. But since this video
went up a while back, it's mostly still populated by normal
comments.
I see one comment from Nico, this kid who was sort of
my friend until a few months ago. We'd go to shows
together and swap music recommendations whenever we
bumped into each other in the halls at school. But when I
heard he hooked up with Bram at a party over
Thanksgiving weekend, it really pissed me off. It's so dumb
because Bram and I had been broken up for months. But
my heart is a fucking drama queen, so I haven't really
talked to Nico since.
His comment was posted two months before Bram died,
so you know it's one of the real ones. It says You can scare
me anytime, and it makes me want to punch something.
Instead, I click over to Nico's channel, planning to leave a
few nasty comments.
But I'm stopped in my tracks because all of Nico's
uploads are videos of him sitting behind a drum set. He's
doing a bunch of drum solos, and in most of the videos he's
performing on corners and in subway stations, the full
drum set right on the pavement or platforms. The craziest
part? He's damn good. “Shit,” I mutter, impressed,
wondering why he never mentioned to me that he was a
musician too.
The house phone rings, and I literally jump and slam
the computer shut, as if I hear my parents coming through
the front door. When I pick up the phone, it is my dad, so I
wasn't completely wrong.
“I'm home. I went to therapy. I have no booze. Anything
else?” I say before he even says hello. I obviously don't
mention the computer.
“Well…good,” my dad says, sounding kind of flustered.
He's not the disciplinarian in the family. I hear my mom
asking him questions about me, and I roll my eyes.
“Hello, Logan, sweetie.” She must have taken the
phone from him. “How'd it go?”
“Not bad,” I say, thinking of Gertrude. “Can we talk
about it later? I'm kind of in the middle of some
homework.”
“Right, well. I'm glad. Go ahead and get that work
done. We'll be home around ten.”
When I hang up, I look through my phone to see if I still
have Nico's number. I almost never delete anything, but he
hooked up with Bram, so I can totally imagine myself
deleting him at some point when I was pissed or drunk. Or
both. But I find the number. And since the only thing I can
do with my phone is text (or talk), I shoot him a message.
Seen any good shows lately?
Who is this?
Logan.
Long time, he texts back.
I feel like I should apologize for giving him the cold
shoulder or something, but before I can, I guess he decides
there are no hard feelings all on his own.
Rohan's new band is pretty badass.
Something swells inside my chest at the mention of
Rohan's name. I fucked up big-time when we made it to
Battle of the Bands, and I never really apologized—I just
stayed away. I wonder if he hates me.
I'm actually going to a show of theirs this Friday, Nico
sends. Wanna come?
I'm grounded, my phone barely works, and my parents
are circling me like fucking vultures. So this seems to be a
bad idea all around.
But Aden won't get off my back about the band. Plus,
I'm supposed to be grieving or whatever. Nico is a
drummer. And he knows Bram.
Sure, I send, thinking maybe I can kill two birds with
one stone.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…
SOUND/WAVE/LENGTH
Looks like: a beach party
Tastes like: bubble gum
Sounds like: earworms waiting to happen (aka the whole
album is catchy af)
3/5
I ace my chemistry test. Mr. Tucker is surprised as he
hands back our papers. “Nice work, Ms. Malone,” he says,
looking at me, as if I'm an impostor or something. He taps
my paper with the remaining stack in his hand. “I hope this
kind of work continues the rest of the semester.”
I nod, and I'm so proud, I hold my breath so I don't
start screaming right there. Studying was painful. I kept
getting distracted by the pictures everyone was posting
from the show, so actually reviewing the notes took
freaking forever, but if this feeling is the payoff, and if it
makes Mom less stressed, maybe pulling my grades up is
worth the trouble.
I want to show this test to Mom right away, so I snap a
photo of it to send to her. Aced my chemistry test, I include.
When class gets out, I run down the hall looking for Rohan.
I bump into Callie instead.
“Cal, look!” I say. I show her my test, but all she does is
shrug. She's wearing a shirt that's falling off one of her
shoulders, and that's the one she lifts, her bare skin
sparkling because I guess she's wearing bronzer.
“Cool?” she says, like she's not sure it is, and she
brushes by me. Deedee is right behind her.
“Oh, that's awesome, Shay,” she says with a smile, but I
see her eyes flick ahead to Callie, who keeps walking.
“What's up with her?” I ask as I start toward my locker.
Deedee turns and follows me, even though hers is in the
opposite direction.
“She's mad you missed the show.”
I sigh. “I knew she'd make this into a big deal. That's
why I sent Rohan. I had to study,” I say.
Deedee nods. “Yeah, but you didn't tell us that.”
She leans against the wall as I pop open my locker. Her
glasses are dirty, so I take them off and clean them with my
shirt before I do anything else. I actually need to put books
into my bag, and Deedee looks surprised by how long it's
taking me to swap things in and out.
“Callie begged her cousin for a couple of backstage
passes to the show last night. You remember Ryan, right?
He's a total—”
“Dick?” I fill in for her.
“Yeah,” Deedee says, though she'd never call anyone
that. “Cal had to, like, promise to work coat check at some
shows all night for him for a few weekends in a row to get
the passes. She wanted to surprise you.”
“Oh,” I say.
Deedee looks at her feet. “She thought it would be
easier for you to watch from backstage, since crowds have
been bugging you so much lately. I told her it was probably
a good idea.”
“Crap,” I mutter, wondering if my friends are worrying
about me too, which is a horrible feeling. I look over at
Deedee. “That was really nice.”
Deedee nods again. “She was really upset you didn't
come, after all that, even though I told her you couldn't
have known. She let Rohan have the passes, so the good
thing is he got to talk to the band a bit, and I got some
really awesome photos, too, even though Revenge kind of
sucked.”
She pulls out her phone and starts thumbing through
her photos. “Which one should we post? I have some more
on my DSLR if you don't like any of these.”
I glance back at where Callie was a minute ago, but the
hall is filling up fast as kids are dismissed from last period.
“I'm not sure, Dee. Can we talk about it later?”
She pockets her phone and hikes her backpack up
higher on her shoulders. “Sure. Um, is it okay if I come to
your track meet?”
I'd almost forgotten I had one today. I smile. “Duh. You
know I love it when you guys come.”
“Oh, I meant, is it okay if it's just me? Callie has a thing
after school, and Rohan got detention. He said he'd drive
us home after, but he wasn't sure what time he was getting
out.”
I look at Deedee, and I feel the nervous, scary feelings
flickering inside me. I don't want Callie to miss my meet if
it's because she's mad at me, and I want Rohan to be there,
too, and my mom still hasn't texted me back. Maybe my
missing the show made things worse instead of better. I
wish Sasha were here to sit with Deedee, at least.
I just wish Sasha were here.
“You don't have to come and sit there all by yourself.
It's an invitational, Dee, so it could go on for hours.”
“No, it's okay. I really want to be there.” She smiles,
her glasses flashing in the hallway's bright lights.
I reach out and wrap her in the biggest hug, wrinkling
my test, which was, a second ago, my crowning
achievement, and not caring at all. Her bushy ponytail
tickles my face and I wonder if my thick hair is doing the
same to her.
“Thank you,” I say.
—
For a few minutes today, I was happy. I was proud that I'd
studied and it had paid off. I've been home before curfew
every night this week, and I haven't been late to track
practice once. Mom hasn't cried in the morning in days,
and I'd like to think that has something to do with me. But
when I step into the gym to start warming up, I see a set of
twins from one of the visiting teams, and now that they're
both standing right in front of me, I'm not happy anymore.
I know Deedee is here, and I should be grateful. But
Callie isn't, and Rohan isn't, and Mom hasn't come to a
meet in forever. And seeing those girls, feeling twinless all
over again, makes it impossible to ignore how not here
Sasha is too.
I start scanning the bleachers, looking for Deedee, but I
can't find her. I'm supposed to be stretching, hyping myself
up, talking smack with my teammates about all the other
teams. But after I can't find Deedee, I just keep staring at
the twins, and their matching faces and long, dark
ponytails are making it hard for me to stay calm.
I shake out my hands because they're getting tingly,
like they're about to go numb. And I know if that happens, I
might lose feeling in my feet too. I can't run—not like this,
because track is all about control, discipline, and focus. I
stare at my sister's hospital bracelet, but I can't even focus
on that. I jog over to Coach.
“I can't run,” I tell him, feeling like a failure, a flake.
“What do you mean ‘can't'?” Coach asks.
I feel tears fill my eyes because I don't know how to
describe it. I need to run, but not in here.
Away.
“I just…It's hard to explain,” I say, but it's not just hard.
It's impossible.
“Okay, Malone,” Coach says, softening because he can't
take it when anyone on the team cries, and he can probably
tell I'm right on the edge. “Go sit on the bench. Drink some
water. See if it gets any better. There are three other
events before yours, so you have some time.”
I go to the bench, but it doesn't get better. Those twins
are still there, and they fist bump before one of them lines
up for the first event. I twist around, scanning the sea of
faces more carefully, desperately, but I still don't see
Deedee. The thought that she could have decided not to
come too crosses my mind. I've never felt so alone in a
room this full.
One of the girls on the team passes me a water bottle.
She says, “You don't look so good,” and I'm tempted to tell
her to shut up, but I hold back. If I look anything like I feel,
I probably look like I'm about to puke.
“Hey,” I hear a familiar voice say, right behind me. I
turn around, and it's Jerome, wearing a big ugly sweater
and grinning. I've never been so happy to see him and his
weird clothes.
“J,” I say. “I have to get the hell out of here.” I start
crying for real then.
He nods. “Okay, it's okay. I think I see Deedee. Let me
go get her, then we'll take you home, okay?”
I nod. I lean forward and put my head between my
knees when he tells me to. It helps a little. And then
Deedee is there grabbing my arm and explaining to Coach
that I'm not feeling well, and then we're in the locker room
getting my stuff. Deedee's voice is in my ear, and it helps
too, and now it's a little easier for me to do what I'm
supposed to be doing. After I change, we go out into the
hall, and Jerome is talking to Rohan, who I guess got out of
detention and has been waiting for us. We pile into the
Band Wagon and pull out of the parking lot a few minutes
later.
As we merge onto the freeway, I roll down my window,
even though it's cold, because I'm trying hard to keep it
together in Rohan's van. I'm hoping the wind in my face
will remind me of running. I'm hoping I'll be able to zone
out instead of freaking out. Deedee reaches forward and
turns on some music, and Jerome puts his hand on my
shoulder.
“You good?” he asks, and I nod again. “I think so,” I say,
but the truth is, I'm so grateful for these amazing people all
around me that I'm fighting off happy tears as much as I
am the other kind.
I'm still too hot, so I push up my sleeves, and just like
that, Sasha's hospital bracelet pops off my arm and flies out
the window.
I twist around to look behind us, but it's hopeless. It's
already gone, and I get upset all over again. My friends are
laughing, making fun of how bad the Revenge show was.
But I can't breathe.
“Stop the car,” I say.
Rohan doesn't hear me. “So SOUND/WAVE/LENGTH is
playing down in Merrick.”
“Oh, I love them!” Deedee cuts in. “Should we swing by
and pick up Callie?”
“Where would she even sit?” says Jerome.
“You'd think in a van this big there would be more
room.” Deedee laughs.
“We can't. If we don't hurry—”
“Ro, I'm serious. Stop the car!”
They all look at me then, and notice that I am not okay.
Rohan says, “Shay, I can't. There's no shoulder on this part
of the highway. But I'll take the next exit, just give me a
minute.”
I look ahead, and there's a sign that says the next exit
isn't for three miles. I'm not sure if I'll make it that long.
Deedee takes my hand, and I close my eyes when Jerome
tells me to try to breathe deeply.
“Talk to me,” Rohan says as soon as we've pulled into
the parking lot of a Dunkin' Donuts. I fling the passenger
door open and start pacing. Jerome stretches out across the
middle seat and lights a joint that he passes around.
Everyone takes a hit but me, and when I refuse, no one
says anything, even though I feel like they're all thinking it:
I'm the main one who needs to chill out.
“The hospital bracelet,” I say, feeling like I'm choking
on the words. “It flew out the window.”
“Oh shit,” Rohan says. “Are you sure?” He walks over to
the passenger side of the car and opens the door. He kicks
around the trash on the floor but doesn't find anything.
When he slides the back door wide, Deedee gets out of his
way and sits on the curb with her arms wrapped around
her shins. Ro keeps looking, a little frantically, and Jerome
lifts his long legs so Rohan can run his fingers over the
middle seat next. Rohan opens the back of the van, but it's
not there, either. His eyes are glassy and fierce when he
looks back at me.
“I'm sure,” I say, because it looks like he's about to ask
me if I am again. “I saw it.” I feel tears spill over my
cheeks. I start pacing and squeezing my hands. “Did you
know that people who don't have twins anymore are called
twinless? Have you ever heard something so horrible?”
This is what I do when it gets bad. I make it worse. Sasha
called it spiraling. And it's dizzying, the speed at which
dark thoughts are filling up my head.
Jerome hits the joint and passes it through the open
door to Deedee, who has come over and put her hands on
my shoulders to stop me from moving. Deedee tries to hand
it off to me, but I shake my head. Jerome says, “You could
always get a tattoo.”
For the first time since we pulled over I stand
completely still. I shove my hands into my pockets and
frown. “What are you talking about?”
“You can't lose a tattoo,” he reasons. “Plus, it would be
badass.” He grins, and his coppery brown eyes sparkle in
the dying evening light.
“Hell, yeah,” Rohan says. “I could get one with you.”
He looks relieved—like it was his fault I lost the bracelet
and now he can make it up to me or something.
“How about the fact that we can't legally get a tattoo?
We're not old enough. Plus, we don't have that kind of
money, and Mom would kill me.”
Rohan lifts his eyebrows and grins, and he looks a little
devilish whenever he makes that face. He pops open the
glove compartment and pulls out something small and
plastic.
“I still have Sasha's fake ID.”
Deedee perks up at this. “No way! Sasha had a fake ID?
For what?”
“Shows, mostly. Getting into the ones that were
eighteen plus.”
“Wait,” I say. “When did Sasha ever go to eighteen-plus
shows?” I'm thinking of Sasha, always reading books,
watching documentaries, and drinking tea. I know she
loved music as much as me, but I've never been to a show
that wasn't teens only.
I guess I'm a little surprised that there's something I
didn't know about her.
Rohan grins again. “Whenever she could,” he says.
—
“There's no way in hell you're getting a ‘Fucking Luke'
tattoo.”
This was my first idea, but everyone thinks it's a bad
one. Rohan had some cash from the last couple of shows he
played still in his wallet. He and his band split whatever
they make at the door and on merch. Jerome and Deedee
donated to the cause, and now we have just enough to get
two small tattoos if the place doesn't try to rip us off. The
only problem with pooling funds is that my friends think
they get to tell me what I can and can't get inked.
“You can't actually stop me,” I say to them. We've just
picked up Callie because I couldn't very well get a tattoo
without all of my best friends there. She's still mad, and not
really talking to me, but I'm still glad she's here. I point to
the inside of my wrist, at the part that pulses; the part that,
on a lighter-skinned person, the soft green of tiny veins
would be visible right through it.
“I'm getting it right here,” I tell Rohan.
“I don't know. Maybe you should get it done here,”
Deedee says, pointing around Callie, who is on her lap, in
the backseat. Her pudgy finger pokes my shoulder. “That
would be easier to hide from your mom.”
“Truuue.” I nod, considering.
“Actually, I can stop you,” Rohan says. He holds the ID
between his thumb and forefinger and bends it until it
starts to look like it might snap in half.
“No!” I shout, and everyone, even Callie, laughs.
I reach for it, but he shakes his head and puts it behind
his back. Like we're freaking five-year-olds.
“Seriously, Ro? Are you going to make me beg for it?”
“Nope,” he says. He grins, and his dimples appear in
his cheeks. “But I am going to make you pinkie promise you
won't get a ‘Fucking Luke' tattoo.”
“Fine, fine, I'll figure something else out,” I say,
offering my hooked pinkie finger. “Promise.”
When he hands it over, I see that the ID says I'm a
woman named Lacy Pantese, from a town in Colorado
that's probably more than a thousand miles away. The
picture, which actually is a photo of Sasha in heavy
makeup, is the most believable part of the whole thing.
“Seriously?” I say again. But he just shrugs.
Jerome takes the ID from me and uses the flashlight
from his phone so the whole backseat can read it.
“This actually works?” he asks.
Rohan says “Yup” and tells us about the last show he
and Sasha went to.
“When you guys moved her into the downstairs room, it
just made it easier for her to sneak out,” he says. “She told
me she didn't want to worry your mom since she was
working all the time. I think she thought it would stress you
out too, if you knew. So it was something just the two of us
did.” He has a small smile on his face, but then he looks
over at me, probably because I'm quiet. “Don't be mad.”
“I'm not,” I say. “Just surprised.”
It's weird to find out that Sasha had secrets, even from
Mom—even from me. But as I look in the rearview mirror at
Callie, who's twisting her brown hair around her finger and
looking through the window, I think maybe there are
unknown parts of everyone. Callie's so intense, and a lot of
people think she's mean. But then she'll do things like beg
someone she hates for a favor, just to help out a friend. I
look at Deedee next, with her honest eyes and big smile,
and at Jerome, with his pretty lips and furrowed brow. I
never know what he's thinking. And Ro, who looks at me
like I'm an apparition half the time and teases me the rest.
We're all so much more than we seem.
When we get to the tattoo place, I hand the ID to a big
bearded guy leaning on the glass case near the entrance;
then I start fidgeting—sticking my fingers into my pockets
and then pulling them out, wringing Sasha's beanie (I'm
wearing a purple one today) in my hands. Rohan pokes me
in the back with his keys and mouths Relax, so I stop
moving so much and try not to look as guilty as I feel.
The guy looks at the ID, then up at me, then down at
the ID again. Then he scans the room, looking at everyone
else. Callie has her arms crossed, but I can see a brightness
in her eyes that wasn't there in the car, so I know she's
excited to be here. Deedee is walking around looking at the
photos on the walls. Jerome has his legs kicked up in one of
the waiting room chairs, and Ro is looking at the body
jewelry. They are all playing it so cool. The guy smirks a
little and tugs at his earlobe, which is pierced half a dozen
times, but then he hands the ID back to me.
“So, Lacy, what can I do for you?”
Rohan looks at me with a warning in his eyes. But I'd
decided in the car what to get instead of “Fucking Luke.”
“My sister's name,” I say, pointing to the inside of my
wrist. Once I get the tattoo, every time I go running and
need to check my heart rate, every time I'm waiting for my
pulse to slow, I'll have to touch “Sasha.” My heart will beat
for the both of us now. “I just want my sister's name right
here.” We all hold our breath as Rohan shows his fake ID,
but it goes much more smoothly than it did with me.
While we wait for the guy to reappear from behind a
velvety red curtain, I flip through a binder, trying to find a
font to use for the tattoo.
“How often does that happen?” Rohan asks.
“How often does what happen?” I echo. I point to a
fancy script on the third page of the book, but Deedee
quickly shakes her head.
“That's too adult-looking, like it could be on a wedding
invitation or something,” she says.
Rohan clears his throat and tucks part of his too-long
bangs behind his ear. “The panic attacks. How often do
they happen?”
I look up at him. “Oh God, Ro. Don't be so dramatic. It's
not a panic attack. I know I'm not, like, dying.” But I look
away when I say that, because pretty much the opposite is
true. Sometimes, when it's really bad, it feels exactly like
dying.
“Sorry,” Rohan replies. “But what just happened back
there was definitely a panic attack. I'm just wondering how
much it happens, because I've seen it happen a few times
this month alone.”
Callie says, “They happen all the time,” even though
nobody asked her and I thought she was giving me the
silent treatment.
I look back at the page of fonts in front of me. I'm about
to turn the page when Rohan reaches for the book and
closes it completely. He puts his phone on top, as if it's
heavy enough to stop me from opening it again, and
crosses his arms.
“Has it happened more than the ones I saw?”
I don't look at him when I nod.
“How many more times?”
I shrug.
Deedee steps closer and touches my arm. “I had no
idea. Does your mom know?”
I look at her and roll my eyes. “If you didn't, what
makes you think she does?”
Rohan bites his lip. “And they've been that bad since
Sasha…?”
I half shrug, half nod. “Have you thought about…I don't
know. Talking to someone?” he asks.
I smile and nudge him, trying to keep the mood light.
“I'm talking to you, right now.”
Callie jumps in. “I think he means like a therapist or
something.”
I bristle, even though I don't mean to. “I'm not crazy,” I
say.
Rohan frowns. “Going to a therapist doesn't make you
crazy.”
“You can't just ignore it,” Callie agrees.
“I'm fine. It's getting better. I aced that test. I'm not
smoking anymore. I'm getting home by curfew. I'm good. I
swear.” But I see Deedee and Callie look at Rohan, instead
of me, and I flare my nostrils because I'm so annoyed. Their
eyes are having a conversation about me like I'm not even
in the room.
The bearded guy pushes back the curtain a second
later and waves us over.
“You pick the script you want?” he asks.
I shake my head and roll my eyes in my friends'
direction. They distracted me.
I'm afraid that if I leave here without a tattoo, every
time I look at my wrist without seeing my sister's hospital
bracelet, I'll feel adrift and alone. Or I'll feel what's coming
on again right now, the wave of worry that overtakes me
before I…panic, if that's what they want to call it.
Jerome walks over to us and picks up Rohan's phone.
He's been pretty quiet since we got here, and he doesn't
say anything now, but he tilts the back of the phone in my
direction.
At some point, Sasha must have doodled her name on
Rohan's phone case. It's written in purple ink and sits in
the center of a sloppily sketched heart, and it reminds me
of her so much that I literally gasp.
“I'd forgotten all about that,” Rohan half whispers.
I grab the phone and aim it at the tattoo artist.
“Can you do this?” I ask.
—
After some pretty searing pain, I stand up and twist my
wrist toward the mirror. It looks like Sasha was here a
minute ago with a marker and a grin; like she drew the
name on my arm herself. While he was working, I
remembered Sasha drawing all over me when we were
little: hearts and stars drawn around my scratches and
scars, promises written along the lines of my veins, like
they were paper.
“I love it,” I say too loudly in the small room I'm in with
just the tattoo artist. I touch Jerome's hand when he holds
my wrist to get a closer look once I rejoin my friends on the
other side of the curtain. “Thanks for noticing her name on
Ro's phone,” I say to him.
He licks his lips, and his long-lashed eyes flick up to
mine. “You like it, then?”
“Duh,” I say.
Rohan won't tell me what he's getting. And he doesn't
let me stay with him while he gets it done. When he comes
out, and rolls up his sleeve, he has “LUKE” in a red circle
with a red line diagonally across it like a no smoking sign.
“You stole my idea!” I shout, but Ro just shrugs, and I can't
stop laughing.
When Rohan drops me off, the house is still and quiet.
No Mom, no Sasha, just me. I go to Sasha's room and grab
another one of her beanies from the pile and pull it on. I've
been wearing them until they start to smell like me instead
of her. Then I lie down on her bed, and I stare up at her
ceiling in the dark. I say, “I got a tattoo today.” But the
Sasha in my head who normally talks back is quiet. Maybe
she's already asleep.
JAN. 24, 3:16 P.M.
I watched High Fidelity today.
Then I watched School of Rock.
Then I watched Pitch Perfect.
A marathon of our favorites. I thought it would make me
feel a little bit better.
It made me feel worse.
I think I should tell someone that I still haven't cried.
But the only person I want to talk to is you.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Jan. 25, 6:11 p.m.
Subject: <none>
On Monday, Dante came over to drive me to school like
he said he would. And when I ducked into his car, he
threw a thumb over his shoulder, pointing at the backseat. I
turned around to see what was there, and it was his beatup backpack. The holey, pin-covered one you hated with
iron-on letters spelling out “Unraveling Lovely.” I think I'll
buy him a new bag. It's the least I can do.
“Good ol' UL,” I say, tracing each letter on his backpack
with the tip of my finger, flashes of all the shows you and I
went to last summer replaying like a greatest-hits reel in
my mind. The upset at Battle of the Bands lingers in the
background. It might have been hard for you to convince
me that random house parties and shopping sprees were
worth my time, and it was nearly impossible to get you to
go to the library or to an art exhibit with me. But whenever
Dante's band had a gig, the only thing we had to decide
was who would drive.
I think about Dante and his drums. How he told me
once that playing made him feel like he was flying. And I'm
about to ask him if he misses it—if he's ever thought about
joining another band like I heard Rohan has—but then he
grins at some commercial on the radio. I don't want to ruin
that smile because it's one of the rare, real ones. So I tell
him a stupid joke instead. When he laughs, I blush.
“Are you okay? With coming back to school, I mean?”
Dante puts his arm behind my seat and looks over his
shoulder to see where he's going as he backs down my
driveway, and I can tell he doesn't want to talk about it. So
I don't say anything else. But when we get to the stop sign
at the end of my street, I reach out and touch his fingers
where they're resting on the emergency brake. It's only for
a second, but it sends a chill up my spine, and I hope he
gets what I'm trying to say with the gesture: Thank you. I
hope he hears my heart whispering, It'll be okay.
The next time I look over at him, it's because he's
pinching the edge of the scarf I'm wearing. “Where's that
been?” he asks.
It's the maroon-and-gold one I wore almost every day in
winter during middle school. The Gryffindor one you grew
to hate. And I haven't worn it in years because you said we
were too old for Harry Potter once we started high school. I
look down at it, and I almost smile.
“I never stopped liking it,” I say. “Even after she sort of
banned me from wearing it to school.”
I say “she” the way I always do when I talk to Dante
about you. I don't ever have to say your name if I don't
want to. He always just knows.
He smiles a real smile again, and my cheeks warm at
the sight of his brightened eyes.
“She was so damn bossy. But I'm glad it's back.”
He must get bored with the music on the radio because
the next time he has to stop, he asks me for my phone. He
plugs it in and opens my music, and the song that comes on
first was one of your favorites. I stiffen, and I think Dante
notices, but when he moves to skip the song I touch his
hand again.
“It's okay,” I say.
He keeps the volume down low while he drives the rest
of the way to school. When the lyric “You're the only friend
I need” fills the car, I turn toward the window and squeeze
my eyes shut, willing tears to come. But they still don't.
If you were in the car with us, you would have started
braiding my hair or leaned forward to turn up the music.
You would have rolled down the window and stuck your
head out like a puppy, even though it was cold. I would
have laughed and pulled you back inside, and Dante would
have threatened to leave us on the side of the road. But you
aren't with us. So my hair hangs loose, and the music stays
low, and the car is almost unbearably warm and quiet.
We pull into the lot and find a space. I take a deep
breath, open the door, and try again to get your brother to
tell me how he's feeling.
“Are you okay? Being back here?”
We're parked, but he isn't moving. His jaw is working,
like he isn't okay, but then he nods and grabs his bag.
Before Dante even closes his door, Perry's appeared beside
me and he's saying your name.
“Tavia loves when the weather is like this,” Perry says,
looking up at the sky, talking about you in the present
tense. It's one of those mornings when the sky is colorless,
a blue so pale it's almost a shade of gray. If you were here,
you would have whispered to me that the sky looks just like
Perry's eyes. And he's right, that you'd love the weather. I
don't know why you tried so hard to pretend that you
weren't as into him as you were. He's never tried to hide
how he feels about you, but I still don't want to talk to him.
My hands start to shake.
“Yeah,” I say to Perry after a pause that's a little too
long. I turn away from him, like he isn't there, and tuck my
hair behind my ears the way I always do.
Dante frowns at us over the roof of the car, and he has
our question in the blacks of his eyes. You okay? they say
without him saying anything at all, and I nod once and start
moving toward the main entrance.
“Yo, D!” Perry says, like he and Dante are friends, when
really, Dante's never liked him. Older brothers aren't
supposed to like their younger sister's boyfriends. Plus,
angsty musicians and lacrosse bros don't really mix.
Perry keeps pace with us, even when I try to walk a
little faster. He looks over my head at Dante and says, “Tavi
would love this weather, wouldn't she?”
He says it like you aren't gone for good. He says it like
you're out today because you're stuck inside with the flu or
away on a trip. He's talked about you like this every day
that I've seen him since the accident, and in some ways it
hurts more than just admitting you're gone. But it's Dante's
first day back, so he isn't used to it like I am.
I stop walking. I stare at Perry's back. He stops when
he realizes I'm no longer beside him. Then I look ahead at
Dante, who doesn't stop at all. I see that his fists are
shoved hard into his pockets and his stiff shoulders are
hunched forward, like he's walking straight into thirty-mileper-hour winds. But he keeps walking, so after a few
seconds I allow myself to start breathing again.
Perry glances back at me and then straight ahead at
Dante, and he seems torn, like he knows he's said the
wrong thing but he doesn't know who to apologize to first.
His sincerity is infuriating, and I wish he were more of a
jerk so I could hate him the way I want to.
You cried like you were the one who'd gotten dumped
the day you broke up with him. You broke your own heart.
When I asked why you'd done it, all you said was that you
thought you loved him too much. It was the week after we'd
applied to all the same schools, so I knew it was probably
about college. I'll never forget how you explained it to
Alexa: I want to go wherever I want without having to
consider where he'll be. Sometimes loving someone is
scarier than leaving them. Even so, we all knew you'd
change your mind about him. We all but betted on it.
I take a step forward, massively grateful that Dante's
closer to the door of the school than he is to us. I'm just
about to tell Perry not to say anything to your brother for
the rest of his life when he mutters something about Dante
needing to find a creative outlet for his anger.
“When was the last time he played the drums?” he
asks. And before I realize that I can't remember, I hear the
thump of Dante dropping his backpack. I look up and he's
charging at Perry like they're members of opposing teams
on a football field.
Despite his drummer's upper body, Dante is still
slighter than Perry, who you called a beefcake for more
reasons than just to be funny. But Dante's rage is
completely unbridled. They hit the asphalt like a Jenga
tower falling hard against a table, and immediately, there is
blood.
I stand there, horrified and helpless, as a crowd
swarms around them. Everyone watching is shouting and
taking videos on their phones, and in the midst of the
chaos, I catch a glimpse of Dante's wild eyes. He's flipped
his switch, and our Dante—the one who holds my hand, and
who cries with his head on my lap, and who used to put you
on his shoulders even once you'd gotten way too big—is
gone.
I take a few deep breaths, remembering how you
always told me that I'm more than the quiet Asian girl
everyone expects me to be. I push past the people watching
so I can get close enough for Dante to hear my voice. I grab
the back of his jacket, and he thinks I'm someone else.
When he whips around, his face is contorted and his teeth
are bared.
He almost hits me, and if I'm being honest, I kind of
want him to. I've been so out of it since the accident; so lost
and lonely and numb. Maybe if he hits me, I think, I'll
finally start to feel something. But he sees that it's me, and
instantly, his movements slow and his eyes change. Just like
when I asked him about school in my backyard, he
immediately cools down.
It's like I'm the key to turning the real Dante back on.
So I say, “Please.”
I say, “Don't.”
And as soon as Dante's fists stop flying, Perry
scrambles away, spitting blood and cursing. His shoelaces
have come undone, and one of his eyes is starting to swell.
When his dark blond hair falls over the other eye, he trips
and everyone laughs.
“Fuck you, Dante,” he says while picking up his bag
from where it's been pushed under the bumper of a nearby
car. Dante doesn't say anything.
I stare at Perry as he stumbles away. I wish you'd made
it to his house to tell him you still loved him.
I wish you'd never met him at all.
I grab your brother's hand and pull him back toward
his car. He needs to be elsewhere fast, before the teachers
start asking questions. I take his keys from his coat pocket
and open the back door.
“Get in,” I say, without meeting his eyes, because I'm
suddenly so mad that I can barely stand the sight of him.
I'm angry with Perry for always talking about you, angry
that Dante started a fight, angry at the world because
you're gone. I get into the car after him, and we just sit
there for a minute or two, both of us fuming. I kick the back
of the driver's seat over and over. We don't touch each
other. We don't say a word.
When Faye taps on the window a few seconds later, we
both jump. I didn't notice her during the fight, but I guess
she saw the whole thing.
“Oh my god,” she says when I open the door. “Dante,
are you okay?”
He nods, looks at me, and then looks away. I get out of
the car.
“What about you?” Faye asks in her Sympathy Voice.
The fight must have stirred up something mean in me
because I say, “Like you care.”
Faye looks surprised, probably because I don't normally
say stuff like that. But she doesn't say “What's your
problem,” or anything, for a second. She glances across the
parking lot. I follow her eyes to where Alexa and Margo are
standing, staring at us.
“Of course I care,” she says. She looks genuinely hurt
and confused. I remember Willow telling me to show my
friends what I need, so I try.
“Sorry,” I say. “It just feels like Margo is only talking to
Alexa now. And Alexa isn't talking to anyone. And you're
talking to everyone except me. I feel like you guys don't
even care that I'm here. Or like you don't even miss—”
I stop. I don't want to say your name.
“It's not that,” Faye says. She sighs deep and loud and
squeezes her fingers together. “Look. Alexa feels…like it's
her fault. Tavia was leaving her party. So she feels guilty,
okay? She's hurting. But, I mean, we all are.” Faye lowers
her voice and steps a little closer to me. “She said seeing
you makes her feel worse about everything. She never
knows what to say.”
It's hard for me to swallow, but I manage it, just barely.
I mutter, “I'm sorry I'm such an inconvenience.”
Faye touches my shoulder. Her nails are painted a
bright shade of white, which makes her dark skin seem
even darker. I lace my fingers together and try not to think
about the deep purple nail polish that is chipped and falling
away from my own nails more and more every day. You'll
never paint them again, so against all logic I pray that
these small patches of indigo last forever.
“You're not,” she says.
I glance back across the lot, at Alexa. Margo is stroking
Alexa's long red hair, and they both look a little shaken up.
When Margo starts typing something on her phone, Alexa
puts up her hand in a not-quite wave. She mouths the word
“sorry.” A minute later I get a text from Margo asking if
Dante is okay.
“How long are things going to be like this?” I ask Faye,
hating how desperate I sound.
Faye reaches out and pulls me toward her. She hugs me
for a long time, the sleeves of her jacket cold against my
neck. The closeness makes me think of Willow. And you.
“I'm sorry. I know I've been weird too,” she says into
my hair. But she's using her normal voice now. She sounds
like Faye. She pulls away and holds one of my hands. “How
are you?”
I shrug.
“Sorry,” she says again, cringing. She tosses a few of
her thick braids over her shoulder. “That was dumb.
Everything sucks. Of course you're not okay.”
“It wasn't dumb,” I say slowly. “It was nice.”
She smiles weakly.
“I'll try talking to Alexa,” she says. “I'll text you tonight,
okay?”
I nod, and she hugs me again, and her boots click as
she walks away.
In the car, Dante's eyes are watery, and his nose has
started dripping blood.
“Jesus,” I sigh. I reach over him and open the opposite
door, so he can stretch out his legs. Then I pull his head
into my lap.
I have tissues and a water bottle in my bag, so I start
cleaning him up with that. I wet the tissue, letting the
water dribble through my fingers, and Dante stares at the
ceiling of the car, at the broken light that should click on
whenever someone opens a door. Tears start sliding down
the sides of his face and into his ears.
He is so endlessly complicated—gentle one second and
brutal the next. But I can see how he aches, that he rages
because he's heartbroken like me. He is so alive, his heart
pounding hard and fast even now while he's lying down. He
feels everything. But I'm numb, as if some part of me died
along with you, and I rarely feel anything at all.
I push his hair back with my shaky hands and dab at a
cut on his eyebrow. I wipe away the blood that's still
trickling out of his nose.
“I'm sorry,” I say. “I'm such an idiot. I shouldn't have
made you come back so soon. You should only come back
when you're ready.”
He lifts one of his hands and catches a strand of my
hair between two of his bloodied fingers. He shifts his eyes,
letting them follow the length of the hair from his hand up
to my face.
“You're sorry?” he asks in a voice so soft, it doesn't
sound like him. He drops my hair and cracks his knuckles,
which are already starting to bruise into a deep shade of
red. They'll be purple by morning.
“I'm a fucking mess. I'm sorry. I just couldn't take it—
Perry standing there, saying her name, like it cost him
nothing. Thinking about him doing that to you every day…”
“Well, he probably won't be talking to me again
anytime soon,” I say. “So mission accomplished?”
I don't mean it like a joke (I'm still pretty mad), but
that's how it sounds. Dante bites his lip, and I think he's
smiling.
“This is not funny, Dante!” I say. I hit his chest, and he
grabs my hand. We stare at each other, and he licks his
swollen lips, but neither of us says anything else.
I glance through the window. The crowd has cleared,
and I hear the bell ring and I don't care. When Dante lets
go of my hand, I look back down at him.
“Let's get out of here,” I tell him. And he doesn't hide
his smile this time. He unfolds his long body and climbs
into the front. I stay in the back and stretch out as much as
I can.
He drives. I don't ask where we're going, and I don't
really care, but I hand him my phone and tell him to play
Unraveling Lovely's album. I think he's going to object,
since that's what they found in your car that night. I
watched him snap his copy of his old band's EP in half
when your parents told us that it was recovered from the
car stereo.
Dante stares at my phone for a few seconds, but then
he plugs it in. The music fills the car, and I think of the first
time I ever heard Dante play the drums. The first ever
Unraveling Lovely show was the first time I realized I liked
him, and the tour was where the three of us—you, him, and
me—all fell a little deeper in love with one another.
I take off my Gryffindor scarf and bunch it up beneath
my head. I watch Dante's profile as he drives, and it must
be the adrenaline from the fight leaving me all at once
because I feel my eyelids getting heavy. After a while,
Dante stops the car, and I open my eyes. I'm not sure how
long it's been or where we are because I'd fallen asleep.
He turns around and looks at me. Unraveling Lovely is
still playing. As I listen to the snare snapping like some
kind of complicated magic in the background of the track, I
wonder if Dante will ever play the drums again. I know
what it's like to need something, or in my case, someone.
He needs his music like I need you.
He says, “You okay?”
And for once, I'm honest. I shake my head and look at
the bruises blooming across his cheekbones, darker already
than they were when we were still in the school parking lot.
“I'm a fucking mess too,” I tell him.
I want to ask him about the drums again right now, but
he looks over me, out the window. So I sit up and look too.
We're at Winnie's, your favorite diner. The one where you'd
order banana-walnut pancakes and chili cheese fries, and
Dante would always get something off the secret menu. I
can't get enough of the pie.
“So you're a mess,” he says, and then grins. “But are
you hungry?”
We order chili cheese fries and banana-walnut
pancakes, and I make a joke about him needing to hit the
drums instead of Perry. He laughs and I smile, and my
chest hurts a little less than usual.
But it's weird being there, without you.
BRAM IS BORED so he makes a survival plan for the
zombie apocalypse.
8,250 views | 4 months ago
I'm punching Bram in the face.
I punch him again, and his nose breaks. Blood spills
from both his nostrils and flows over his lips, but I don't
stop hitting him.
We're in the locker room, and he's not wearing a shirt,
just a thin pair of Under Armour leggings and football
socks. It's fucking freezing. It shouldn't be this cold inside,
and I shouldn't be hitting him, but it is and I can't stop.
I shove him, and one of his broad shoulders hits the
row of lockers closest to the showers. He screams and
grabs his arm. It looks dislocated, and some wicked part of
me is glad.
“Logan,” he says. He's sobbing, and it's so cold that his
voice makes steam puff from his mouth, like there's a fire
inside him. “Let me fix this!”
But I don't listen. He trips over a towel someone's left
on the floor and falls onto the hard tile of the shower stall. I
kick him in his rib cage, even though he's already down and
not fighting back. I'm crying too.
He's wheezing. Like something important is broken, or
like something is wrong with his lungs, and I'm so mad I
can't see straight. I can't remember if he has asthma. I
can't remember what I'm mad about either.
I throw a bottle of pills at him. I scream, “Eat them! Eat
them all!” And when he doesn't listen, I pick up the bottle,
rip it open, and start shoving the pills down his throat. His
teeth scratch my knuckles, but I don't stop until the bottle
is empty.
Then everything gets quiet. It looks like he's falling
asleep. He stops crying. I stop crying. He sinks to the floor
and closes his eyes.
“I hope you die alone,” I say. The words echo around us
a thousand times, even though I whispered them.
When I turn away from him, his heartbeat echoes too.
It's suddenly the only thing I can hear. It is so loud. The
heartbeat is slowing down, so I start to run through the
locker room toward the door. But before I get there, I hear
his heart stop.
I push my way out of the gym, and the sun is so bright,
it blinds me.
I jerk awake.
When I look around I realize I'm in English class, and
everyone is laughing because I completely spazzed out and
knocked my backpack (which I was using as a pillow) off
my desk and onto the floor. It's not the first time I've
dreamed that I'm the one who killed Bram. I'm sure it
won't be the last.
“Logan, do you need a minute?” Mr. Hershey says.
“Uh, yeah. Thanks, Mr. H.”
I stand up and try to ignore the whispers of “freak” that
the jocks sitting in the back row toss in my direction. I
never understood why Bram was friends with them, and
they didn't say jack to me while we were together. I wonder
if he kept them in check or told them not to pick on me.
He'd seen me angry, so maybe he was more concerned for
their safety than he was for mine.
I step into the hallway and speed walk toward the boys'
bathroom while reaching into my pocket for my phone. But
before I've unlocked it, before I've even had a second to
catch my breath from that dream, I bump right into the last
person on earth I want to see: Yara.
Her short black hair is wavy and wet. She's tan and tall,
with tender-looking eyes. I mumble a quick “sorry,” and she
flashes a tight-lipped smile.
She opens her mouth, like she has something to say to
me, but then closes it again almost right away. I wonder for
a minute if Bram ever talked about me with her. I wonder
what she thinks of the asshole who told Bram he hoped
he'd die barely six months before he did.
I nod at her, feeling my insides ignite, and I'm burning
up as I think about the stupid poem she posted in the
comments of his video; as I think about Bram kissing her
instead of me. I keep walking because even these hallways
remind me that he's gone, and I'd love to have five minutes
when he's not the only thing on my mind. I shove my phone
back into my pocket, and I'm about to push open the door
of the bathroom when I hear Yara's voice ring out like a
bell.
“Hey, wait up,” she says. “Logan?”
I turn around, my body stiff, my eyelids heavy with the
burden of much-needed sleep and a little bit of hate. I look
at her long legs, poking out like matchsticks from her short
skirt. I stare at her stupid pink Uggs.
“What?” I say, trying not to sound like I'm talking to the
bitch who stole my boyfriend, even though I am.
She walks down the hall toward me, and the way the
sun is shining through the window behind her almost gives
the girl a goddamn halo.
When she reaches me, she says, “I've been meaning to
see how you're doing. You know, since…it happened.”
I bite my lip and look behind her, directly into the light
of the sun, because today is not the day. I let it burn my
eyes for a second so that when I look back at her, she's
covered in enough black spots that I can barely make her
out.
“Right.” I nod again and rock back on my heels, trying
to keep the attitude out of my posture. Trying not to think
about my recurring nightmare, Gertrude, or Bram. “I'm
good.”
She looks behind her, down the hall, like she's hoping
no one sees her talking to me. She crosses her arms, and I
swear to God when the girl looks back up at me, her dark
eyes are shiny, like she's working up a cry.
“Good,” she says, looking right at me now. “That's
good. I'm glad. I, uh, I know he was important to you too.”
“You could say that,” I mutter.
I hook my thumbs into my pockets and wait. I can tell
she has more she wants to say, and I don't know if it's the
way her face is getting a little pink or what, but all of a
sudden I want to hear whatever Yara Cruz wants to tell me.
“So, I'm not sure if you know this, but Ms. Lassiter's
birthday is coming up.”
“Okaaaay,” I say, because this is random as hell.
Bram always made a huge deal for his mom's birthday.
He'd take her out to a big fancy dinner or buy her jewelry
he couldn't afford or bake her a fancy dessert. Once, when
we were dating, he had me come over really early in the
morning to shovel out a messy “HAPPY BDAY MOM” in the
snow outside their building so that when she woke up and
looked out the window, it would be the first thing she saw.
“It's next week,” Yara continues, “and me and a few of
the girls…we were going to make cupcakes and go hang
out with her for a while after school.”
She looks really uncomfortable, and I'm kind of
enjoying it, so I don't say anything, even though it's clear
where this is going.
“I know she likes you, so I wanted to, you know, tell you
that we were going, in case you wanted to come.”
“Hm,” I say.
She ducks her head a little and reaches down to yank at
the hem of her skirt. It's short and so tight it doesn't move
much, but I can tell that the pulling is a habit. When she
presses her shiny lips together and meets my eyes again,
her eyelashes are wet, and I feel a little shitty about the
way I'm handling this whole encounter.
Then she says, “Well, can I give you my number?” I
hesitate until she smiles. “Just in case you change your
mind.” She looks earnest and innocent as all hell. I hand
over my phone, and she types her number in without a
second thought.
“Just think about it,” she says. She gives me a tiny wave
and turns to head back down the hall. I watch her walk
away, trying to decide if the whiskey I stole from Aden,
which is sitting in the bottom of my backpack, would feed
or snuff out the burning I feel in my chest.
Just as she disappears around the corner, I push my
way into the bathroom and reach for the whiskey. But
before I left Gertrude's office after my last session, she
gave me homework.
“Let's start with this: only drink once a week,” she said,
and then handed me a card with her cell phone number on
it, like she was my AA sponsor or something.
“Text me if something triggers you to drink.”
I can't explain it, besides saying that talking to her
makes my insides feel less like sharp, hot things that no
one should touch. But my phone is still in my hand, so I
send Gertrude a text before I can overthink why I want to
do it. Maybe I'm just that lonely. That damn pathetic. The
message just says, It's Logan. I want to drink.
She texts back almost immediately.
You don't have to tell me why. But think about why. That
why is a trigger. Make note of it. Acknowledge it but don't
dwell on it. Find something positive to focus on.
I push my way into a stall with the bottle in my hand,
and I do the opposite of what she suggests. I dwell on the
fucking trigger: Yara Cruz. I kind of hate her. But that's
when I realize that I'd just blown off Bram's girlfriend, the
person who was probably closer to him than anyone else.
Yara spent hours with him every day. If anyone knows what
he was like near the end, it would be her. I don't open the
bottle.
Logan? Gertrude texts.
I had a bad dream, I tell her, which is partially true. I
found something else to focus on.
Did you drink? she asks.
Nope, I send.
Great.
I put the whiskey back into my backpack, at the very
bottom. I go to the vending machine and get a Cherry Coke
instead.
When I get back to class, I'm still thinking about Yara,
her invitation to Ms. Lassiter's, and the things she might
know. I message her.
Hey, it's Logan. Sorry I was such a dick in the hall
just now.
You're right—everything's been shit since the day I
found out.
If your offer still stands, I do want to come.
But if not, I get it. I can be an ass sometimes.
Anyway, sorry.
She writes back before the end of class.
It's okay. I get it. I hope you'll still come.
My heart pounds like a goddamn jackhammer as I read
her words. Yara has to know what was up with Bram.
—
Rohan's show is tonight. So I go to Aden's after school and
tell my parents I have to do research for a project at the
“university library.” It's the only reason they're allowing me
to leave the house.
But when I knock on Aden's dorm room door, he's not
home. His roommate, Connor, swings the door wide and
grins.
“Hey. Aden has a study group he forgot about. He'll be
back later, though.”
“Mind if I hang out?” I ask.
“Come on in,” he says.
I kick off my shoes and press my back against the wall
beside Aden's bed. I close my eyes because Aden's room
has become a safe haven—it's the only place where I feel
any kind of distance from all of the Bram stuff.
“Wanna smoke?” Connor asks me a few seconds later.
When I open my eyes, he's standing on his bed
wrapping the smoke detector with a red-and-white plastic
bag and a rubber band. I grin.
He points to the joint he's already rolled, which is lying
neatly beside a bright pink lighter on his pillow.
“Yep,” I say, hoping it will spark my creativity, or at
least get me out of my own head.
I tell him I'll be right back. I step out of the room to use
the bathroom down the hall. After I wash my hands, I dial
my mom's cell and press the phone hard against my ear as
it rings, and harder still after I say hello and she starts
grilling me for details. I walk down the hall with her voice
in my ear.
“I'll be back late, but I won't miss curfew….Yes, I
promise….No. I'm meeting the other kids in my group right
now….Aden's letting me use his ID if I need to check out a
few books….Yeah, I know I can't hang out with him.”
When she seems satisfied, I hang up and push open
Aden's door at the same time.
—
“See,” I say to Connor, “when you want to make shit and
you can't, you start to accept that you'll just fade away. And
since I want to make music, but I can't write a single lyric, I
need to disappear.”
This statement made perfect sense in my head, but less
sense when I said it out loud. But Connor gets it. He nods,
exhales a smoke doughnut, and says, “Damn, brah. That's
deep.”
I'm taking my fourth or fifth hit off the joint when Aden
walks in. I start coughing as soon as the door opens. He
looks from me to Connor and back again.
“Hey,” he says slowly.
“Hey,” I say. “Wanna jam?”
I hand the roach to Connor, who must think what I just
said is hilarious. He's cracking up for some reason, and I'm
trying hard not to laugh too.
Aden's almost never angry, but I can tell that he's right
on the edge.
“Well, it looks like you're having a great time with
Connor. Which is awesome considering we still don't have a
song, a band name, or a drummer.” He squints at me and
continues, “I only started this up with you because I
thought you'd take it seriously. My friends warned me not
to start a band with someone still in high school, but I told
them all, ‘You don't know Logan, he's legendary.' ”
Aden frowns, like he's kind of concerned or suddenly
suspicious. “Are you just stringing me along because I'm in
college and here you have easier access to this kinda shit?”
He kicks an empty beer can and then points at the roach
Connor is still holding.
I think about Bram then. About how we would smoke
together and how weed turned his fingertips into
something cool and smooth against my skin, like he was
frosting a cupcake every time he touched me—which is
exactly not what I should be thinking about right now.
“Logan?” Aden says again. He widens his eyes, and I
realize he asked me a question that I haven't answered.
“My bad. I just have a lot going on.” I figured out a way
to talk to Gertrude about Bram, but I still don't know how
to say anything true about him in front of anyone else.
Aden picks up his keys like he's about to leave again,
and I'm not sure how to redeem myself. So I lie.
“I have good news,” I tell him.
“What?” he asks, sounding like he doesn't believe me at
all.
“I found a drummer.”
He smiles super wide. “Seriously?” he shouts. I nod and
open his laptop to show him some of Nico's videos.
“Holy crap! This guy is amazing! Where'd you find
him?”
“Believe it or not, he goes to my school,” I say.
Aden lifts me up in a hug because he's so damn happy,
and I kinda want to kiss him, but I hold back.
We order pizza because Aden can see that both Connor
and I have the munchies. But Aden eats his fair share of the
three pies, shoving almost whole pieces in his mouth at
once. He invites a couple of kids from down the hall to join
us, and an impromptu party starts, just like that. I turn on
music and dance with Aden—a continuation of my apology.
I whisper, “Tonight almost makes me want to go to
college.”
And when he says, “But what about doing music fulltime?” I kiss him, his lips still greasy from the pizza,
because he's the only person besides Bram and my old
band members who has ever taken my music seriously.
I try to sneak away when he and Connor start playing
video games. But as soon as I shoulder on my jacket, Aden
looks at me and says, “Stay. We can work on the song. I
have a few ideas.”
I shake my head. “I can't,” I tell him, trying to push
away the guilt I feel about lying to him about Nico.
“I'll text you later,” I say.
—
“Hey, Nico.” I walk from the train station to his car, where
he's sitting with his window rolled down, music turned all
the way up.
“Logo!” he shouts. I'd forgotten about the dumb
nickname he gave me. He jumps out of the car, tosses an
arm over my shoulder, and wrestles me into a headlock
because Nico is fucking annoying. But I guess that's part of
his charm.
He lets me go, and I raise my eyebrows and press my
lips together. He has crazy-blue eyes and smooth dark skin,
so I get what Bram saw in him. He's wearing a leather
jacket that I kind of want to steal. Unraveling Lovely is
spilling from his speakers, so the closer I get to his car, the
more my voice seems to be everywhere.
“A little show before the show,” he says. “Sing to me?”
And as I duck into the passenger seat, I can't help but
smile and fulfill his request.
When we get to The 715, it's packed inside. Rohan's
band, Our Numbered Days, is one of the first to perform
tonight, even though Nico tells me they headlined a few
shows last month.
“That's the great thing about Ro,” Nico says. “He's
unpretentious, you know? He doesn't care about status and
all that. He cares about the music.”
I nod and wonder if Nico knows that he's touching a
still-sore-as-hell spot when he asks me to sing Unraveling
Lovely songs on the ride over and then tells me how
awesome Rohan is. I know how great he is. I miss making
music with him almost as much as I miss Bram.
But I'm not here to wax poetic about my failed attempt
at fame. I'm here to listen to music, to ask Nico about
Bram, and, if I can grow big enough balls to do it, maybe
even ask him if he wants to join my band.
It's still early, so we stake out a part of the wall closest
to the stage. Nico grabs us drinks from the bar—he brings
me a Cherry Coke—and I'm surprised by how much fun I'm
having already. I thought it would be hard to be around
him, knowing that he'd been with Bram, but it isn't. I'd
forgotten what it was like to have a friend.
“So I wanted to apologize,” I say, because I do, and I
also want to bring up Bram sooner rather than later.
They're doing a mike check, and the venue is filling up, so
it won't be long now before we're pressed tight against the
stage and it's too loud to hear anything.
“I heard about what happened at that party over
Thanksgiving break.”
Nico looks around and then straight at me, and his eyes
are so blue that they feel dangerous in this kind of dark.
“And after I heard,” I continue, “I was kinda pissed.
Even though I hadn't been with Bram in forever.”
I can't read the expression on his face, so I keep
talking.
“I know it was dumb,” I say, “so I'm sorry. It was shitty
of me to disappear.”
Nico bites his bottom lip and nods. He takes a sip of his
own drink, something bubbly and clear, and he's gone tight
around all his edges. The drink could be sparkling water,
Sprite, or spiked tonic water, since I know kids sneak booze
in here all the time. I lean forward and sniff at the rim of
his cup. He grins a little and shakes his head, but he still
seems tense.
He says, “I'm driving. Duh.”
I swallow. Take a deep pull from my Cherry Coke, and I
wish I had brought Aden's whiskey with me. I wish I still
had some of my high, but that buzz is long gone.
Nico touches my fingernail where my hand is gripping
the can. They're painted midnight blue again, shimmering a
little in the low light. Nico says, “They look like the sky.”
“How can you even tell in here?” I ask him because it's
dim, and details are lost, not noticed, in rooms like this one.
He shrugs. “I just can,” he says.
“Were you and Bram hanging out a lot?” I ask, pushing
for more while he's still studying my nails. “Or was it like a
onetime thing?”
Nico looks away from me, unbuttons his jacket, and
drapes it over his arm, and for a second, I worry he's not
going to answer at all. I pull up my jeans, and they feel too
tight all of a sudden. I slip out of my jacket too. Then Nico
levels me with those cobalt eyes, and I resolve to paint my
nails that color next time.
“I'll tell you, just to get this conversation over with,” he
says.
He glances up at the stage, just as the lights get even
lower, and everyone around us starts to scream. He leans
into me so that his lips graze my earlobe as he says, “He
kissed me at that party because he thought we were about
to get caught.”
“Caught doing what?” I ask.
“We had pills,” he says. “A lot of them.” The music
starts, and I think I see Dante, the drummer from
Unraveling Lovely. We haven't spoken in months because of
what happened at Battle of the Bands, and I'm not ready to.
I move closer to Nico in case Dante turns around.
Nico cups his hand around my ear.
“Bram was my dealer,” he says.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…SUNSCREAM
Looks like: GIRL LEAD SINGER!!!
Smells like: a perfect day at the beach
Sounds like: screamy, girl-powered vocals. Powerful work
on the keyboard with lots of synthetic sounds. Distorted
guitar. So basically: ALL OF MY FAVORITE THINGS.
Tastes like: an everlasting jawbreaker (you don't want this
album to end)
4/5.
I could almost feel it.
—
Dancing is the best medicine.
Maybe only next to listening to music while standing
still. Or singing. Singing is really, really great, too. Also
kissing. Kissing is good. I've done all these things tonight.
Jerome is beside me, with his hand on the small of my
back, and Deedee is right in front of us, her camera lifted
over her head. She's screaming and somehow still taking
pictures of Sunscream, a band we've been hearing about
for a while but have never seen live until tonight. I think
Deedee is a little in love with the lead singer, a cute girl
with blond hair and an incredible voice, who is wearing
combat boots and a tutu. Sasha wrote a review for their
album months ago. All night I haven't stopped wishing she
was here.
I turn around and press my hands against Jerome's
chest, and my bangles slide down to my elbow. He fingers a
few of the bracelets as he answers whatever question I
guess my body is asking. Do you want to be closer? my
palms ask him. Yes, he seems to say as he grips my hand
before kissing me with his hot, soft lips.
“Get a room!” Callie shouts as she squeezes by us, and
Jerome laughs at first, but then he leans closer so I can
hear him over the music.
“We could get out of here, you know. I've been wanting
to ask you something.”
I think about where we could go at first—how I could
kiss him against the wall in the back hallway of The 715,
how we could sneak through the alley behind the club, how
fun it would be to take Ro's keys and make out in the Band
Wagon. But then what Jerome actually said sinks in. He
wants to ask me something. Which is just another way of
saying he wants to talk. He might want to define this…
whatever this is. But I like us as we are: Undefined.
Uncomplicated. I pretend I didn't hear what he said and
turn away from him, toward our friends.
Callie has two drinks in her hands, and one of them is
for me. She's forgiven me for missing the last show
because I listened to her podcast, gave her two pages of
notes, and told her I'd work the coat check with her to pay
back her cousin. Ro's band just got off the stage, and he's
posted against the wall with Jo, the drummer. He steals my
drink, and I'm glad. I have a reason to step away from
Jerome and wrestle the cup out of Rohan's hands.
The song ends. We all scream. And Callie leans toward
me and says, “I know Sasha wrote a review of this band
already, but we still don't have one up for Our Numbered
Days.” What she doesn't say, but what's totally implied, is
that we need to find someone new to write BAMF reviews.
But I don't want to think about replacing Sasha right now.
So I spin toward Deedee, dancing away from everything
and everyone I want to avoid, to see if she took pictures of
anything but the lead singer's face.
And there, across the room, near the opposite side of
the stage, I think I see Dante, the drummer from
Unraveling Lovely.
“Is that Dante?” I shout in Rohan's direction. He goes
up on tiptoe and squints. But then his eyes go wide.
“Holy crap, yeah. I think it is.”
He pushes past me and Jerome, and as I watch the two
pieces of Unraveling Lovely reunite, I think about Logan
and the Battle of the Bands disaster. The audience had
been screaming for Unraveling Lovely, and all their hard
work went down the drain in an instant because Logan
showed up drunk. They never played together again, and it
was the last show Sasha went to before she got really sick.
Rohan's over it (because he can't hold a grudge against
anyone), but I'm still pretty pissed about it. The last time I
saw either of them, it was Sasha's memorial service, and I
wasn't exactly in the mood to talk to anyone about
anything. But now, I wonder how Dante feels.
I'm posting one of Deedee's photos on BAMF, and still
actively avoiding Jerome, when Rohan comes back over. He
has the same look on his face he had that night in Sasha's
hospital room.
I move away from Jerome, Deedee, and Callie, with
Rohan's hand clutched in mine. I pull him into the narrow
hall that leads to the bathrooms.
“What the hell happened?”
“His sister…,” Rohan says.
“Whose sister? Dante's?” I ask.
Rohan nods. He finally looks at me instead of the
graffiti-covered wall in front of us.
“You remember her, right?”
I did. She came to every UL show wearing something
ridiculous: glitter-covered T-shirts, hot pink scarves, lightup sneakers from the nineties.
“Yeah, Tavia. She always came with her quiet Asian
friend, Autumn. What about her?”
Rohan looks stricken again. He frowns. Blinks.
“She died,” he says. “In a car accident, a few weeks
ago.”
I stare at him blankly for about two seconds. I try to
take a breath, but I can't get any air. I feel like I'm floating
away from Rohan, and my eyes fill with tears. The panic is
so complete that the edges of my vision go blurry and then
turn black. I double over and blink a bunch of times, but it
doesn't help.
“Shay?” Rohan says, and it's not so much that I can't
talk; it's more like I never learned how. I pull away from
him when he touches my back and elbow my way through
the crowd until I get outside. The cold helps a little, but I
don't even try unlocking my bike. I wish I could go back
inside with my friends because it's not even close to curfew
yet, but I can tell that's no longer an option. I wipe away
my tears and try to block out the thought that is marching
through my head, the beginning of what I know will be an
awful, endless spiral: Not her too. Not her too.
I put on my headphones, the volume as loud as I can
stand it, and I run all the way home.
—
The next morning, there's a new post on Sasha's blog.
After I got home from the club last night, I checked
Dante's accounts, but he was never really big into posting
online, which explains why I didn't know about his sister—I
followed him, not her. There wasn't much to see. I went
through Autumn's accounts next, slowly circling closer, and
then, finally through Tavia's. The outpouring beneath her
photos reminded me of what it was like right after Sasha
died. Not that it's been very long. But it's slowed down a lot
since the first few weeks. I wanted to text Dante. I stared at
his name on my phone for a solid ten minutes. But I didn't
know what to say. So I talked to Sasha a little, and since
Mom wasn't home, I cried myself to sleep in my sister's
bed.
Now Sasha's comments are exploding again. When I
went to bed last night, the wilting flowers image she posted
a few days before she died was still at the top. But this
morning, when I woke up, there it was: a post that said If
you're reading this, I'll never turn sixteen.
I would think that the blog had been hacked or
something, but the message is too painfully true, too onthe-mark. Anyone who would know enough about Sasha to
write that would never write that. It has a bunch of likes
already, because sick kids all over the world follow Sasha's
blog. It was where she wrote about her treatments, where
she proudly posted pictures of her bald head. She didn't
shy away from the hardest parts of having cancer, and
people loved that about her.
I look at some of the reblogs the post is getting. One
blogger, whose avatar is a photo of a bald girl (her, I
assume) with a pink ribbon tied around her head, has
reblogged Sasha's post and added the comment, What a
BAMF. And I know she doesn't mean to reference Badass
Music Fanatics, but I like that the acronym works in two
ways for Sasha. Another guy has added a reaction GIF of
someone crying. A kid who has a character from one of my
favorite TV shows as their avatar has written, I'm working
on my queued posts now.
Queued posts. So the post probably is from Sasha. I
knew Sasha was afraid of being forgotten, of disappearing
without a trace—it's why she wrote so many album reviews,
sometimes more than one a day. She wanted people
reading her words even after she was gone. So this makes
sense. It just makes me sad that I didn't know this about
her—that there's more I didn't know about her than I ever
realized.
I lie in bed and stare at my phone for so long that I
don't realize I'm late for morning track practice until Mom
sticks her head into my room. Crap.
“You feeling okay, Shay-Shay?” she asks. She started
using this nickname for me again after Sasha died. Before
then, she hadn't used it in years.
“I think I'm sick,” I say. Even though I know I shouldn't
be skipping school if I don't want Mom to worry. This
queued post is a little too much to handle, but I don't want
to tell her about it.
She gives me a look, like Who do you think you're
fooling, but when she walks into my room, she doesn't say
anything. She presses her hand to my forehead and then to
my neck. She's wearing a tight pencil skirt and a blazer,
and her hair is smoother than usual. She straightened it.
She always looks nice when she heads to work, but the
blazer and hair make me wonder if she has a big meeting
or something today.
“You don't feel warm.”
“It's not that,” I say. And I look at her. She can tell that
I mean I'm the upset kind of sick, not the kind that would
give me a fever.
“Oh,” she says. “Well, I think we both know you'll only
feel better if you get out of the house. Why don't you get
dressed and meet me downstairs in twenty minutes?”
“But, Mom,” I start, thinking of the queued post, of
Tavia. But she puts her hand up, as if she's directing traffic
and my voice is a jaywalker.
“Shay, I don't want to hear it. You're not ill. You're sad.
And I understand, sweetheart. I do. But the only way to feel
better is not to wallow. And you can't really afford to miss
another day of classes this year. So get up. You're late, so
I'll drop you off. We'll grab breakfast on the way, how's
that?” I wait until she walks away; then I scream into my
pillow.
The whole time I'm getting dressed, all I can think
about is the queued posts. Was this the only one? And if
not, how many more of them did she set up? How often can
I expect them? I check out the queue functionality, and it
looks like I can select a postdate infinitely into the future.
Will the world still be receiving messages from my
sister years from now?
In the kitchen with Mom, as I'm zipping up my
backpack, I keep thinking about everything Sasha was
doing while she was sick that neither of us knew about.
Mom's sad music is playing, and it makes me feel bad that I
was giving her a hard time about going to school. She's
upset about something this morning too.
“Did you get my text about my chemistry test?” I ask,
hoping to distract her from her sadness. She turns to look
at me.
“I did!” she says. She smiles. “Did I not remember to
text you back? I got it during a meeting. I'm so sorry, honey.
Great job, really.” I press my lips together and nod.
“Did you notice that I haven't missed curfew in a
while?” I ask next.
She puts her keys down on the counter instead of
slipping them into her pocket. “I had noticed that,” she
says.
“Oh. Good.” I nod again. I'm not sure what reaction I
was expecting, but I was expecting something. I finish
packing my bag, without saying anything else.
When I look up, Mom is walking across the kitchen
toward me, and her face looks drawn. She slides her bag
off her shoulder and turns down the music that's been
playing instead of turning it off, like we're not leaving yet.
“I got a call from your coach yesterday, though. I
wanted to talk to you about it. I was going to wait until
tonight, but I guess we can do it now.”
I freeze. “He called you?” I ask, and she just keeps
watching me. “Well, it only happened one time,” I assure
her. “We don't need to talk about it now. Aren't you running
late too?”
She touches my hand. “Shay, I'm just worried. He said
he noticed that you've been having a lot of trouble since…”
She trails off.
I don't know why, but the way she's looking at me, the
way her voice sounds, it makes me angry. I've been working
so hard to try to make her happy, and it's as if it doesn't
even matter. She brings up my only failing, and it feels like
a betrayal—like she's ignoring everything else.
“Since I became twinless?” I ask. My voice sounds
calm, but I said it to hurt her. I regret it almost
immediately.
“Shay,” she says. She sounds calm too, but she's
shaking her head and frowning. “What a horrible thing to
say.”
Sasha's post floats through my head. If you're reading
this, I'll never turn sixteen. That's the real horror here, not
anything that I've said.
“It's true, though,” I say. “It's what I am. And I'm okay
with it. You don't have to worry, Momma.”
I'm surprised by how well I'm holding it together. If I
can make myself believe it, I can definitely convince her. I
take a deep breath, and I hear Sasha's voice in my head.
You're okay.
“I'm perfectly fine,” I say.
“Shay. We should talk about this,” she insists. But I
ignore her.
“I think I'm going to bike to school,” I say. “I already
missed practice, and like you said, I can't afford to miss any
more classes.”
She hesitates, but I think the twinless thing has shaken
her up. She doesn't want to talk any more than I do now.
“Are you sure? I'll be home late, so I can go in a little later
this morning.”
What else is new? Sasha says. Though, maybe that was
me.
My insides are starting to tense up, but my mouth
smiles. I can't get in a car with her. Not now.
“I'll see you tonight.”
My phone beeps as I'm climbing onto my bike.
I know I should be asking if you're okay after the
way you ran away last night. But have you looked
at Sasha's blog today?
It's a text from Rohan.
Yeah, I send back. Queued post.
Shit. I thought I was losing my mind. Or being haunted
or something.
Lol, I send. I thought she'd been hacked.
So are you? Okay, I mean? Between the post and finding
out about Tavia, I'm all messed up.
Not really. I tried to fake sick, I send. Then I asked my
mom if she'd noticed how much better I'd been doing with
everything.
What she say, he asks.
She told me Coach called her and she wanted to talk.
She didn't even care about anything else.
The queued post and the nonfight with Mom is stirring
something up inside me: a nervous energy I worry might
spill over into a panic. I need music or movement, or both,
and fast.
Where are you? I ask him.
Still in bed.
I already missed track practice. Wanna run?
YES. Meet you in the usual spot in ten.
When I get there, Rohan is already waiting, sitting on
the bumper of his van, like he's been there for a while. He
has his black hair pulled back with an orange headband,
and he's wearing a gray sweatshirt along with some red
fingerless gloves.
“Sorry,” I huff, steam filling the air between us. “This
backpack filled with actual books slowed me down.”
Rohan kinda grins but doesn't say anything; just pushes
away from his van and slides the back door open. He puts
my bike in, then walks back to me and takes my bag. He
doesn't really talk when he's in run mode, as Sasha used to
call it. His face is serious, and his normally playful eyes are
steady and focused. He lifts his heavy brows at me and tilts
his head in the direction of the densely wooded area in
front of us—his way of asking if I'm ready without using
any words. The entrance to the path is sun dappled and
pretty, but it's treacherous once you're in there.
I grin and nod, bouncing on the balls of my feet, a new
burst of energy filling me up like pages in a book. Rohan
slips in his earbuds because he can't run without music.
We look at each other. We look at the path. Then we
run.
—
“I think I'm gonna skip,” Rohan says after we're back in his
van and he's driving in the direction of school. He's
clenching his jaw, and even though I'd pledged not to skip
anymore, something about how Mom was this morning and
how wound up Rohan seems, even after a run, tugs at my
heart.
“I guess I have to skip too,” I say, like it's not a big deal.
“In solidarity or whatever.”
Rohan lifts his eyebrows, but he doesn't say anything,
and I'm glad. He turns the van around.
In his garage, he plays guitar and sings all our favorite
songs all morning—music is his outlet too. I strum my air
guitar and lip-sync like I mean it. We order lunch with the
money Mom left me for dinner, and then he finally plays
some Our Numbered Days tracks for me. He stares at me
as the first song starts. I stay silent until the last one ends.
“You guys are good, but…”
“Don't say it,” he mutters.
“You already know.”
“Yep.”
I stand up and switch the music to an Unraveling
Lovely song, and in seconds, Logan's voice swims into the
air. UL is just better. They had something that's hard to put
into words.
We watch Intervention the rest of the afternoon. I fall
asleep on his couch after the third episode, feeling more
relaxed than I've felt in months.
I don't realize I left my phone in Rohan's garage until
he shakes me awake and I start looking for it.
“Uh-oh,” I say as I climb into the Band Wagon. I
literally have eighteen missed calls from Mom.
When we pull up in front of my house, I turn to him.
“Regardless of what happens when I get in there, thanks
for today,” I say.
He nudges my shoulder and says, “Anytime. But I hope
it was worth it.” My phone buzzes again. It's Mom, again.
As I climb out of the car, Rohan whispers, “Nice knowing
ya” before he drives away.
I try to ease silently into the house, but Mom is
standing in the living room, waiting for me. She's still in
her blazer. But she's gripping the phone in one hand and
holding a Bible in the other.
“Um…,” I say.
“I hope you have more to say than that,” Mom says.
“Where on earth have you been?”
“I thought you were going to be home late?”
“That does not answer the question I asked you, Shay
Patricia Malone,” she says.
I cringe. She only Patricias me when she's really mad.
I sit down on the couch and start untying my shoes. I
kick them off and keep my eyes on the bit of carpet
between my feet because I'm too afraid to look up at her.
There's a tiny speck of brownish red, and I know it's
probably from one of Sasha's nosebleeds. The sight of it
makes my heart beat a little too fast, and I feel the amazing
day I had with Rohan slipping through my fingers.
“Start talking,” she says.
“I went on a run with Rohan since I missed track
practice. And I told you I felt crappy this morning. I just
wasn't up for school today.”
“Can you imagine,” Mom says slowly, “what was going
through my head when I got a call that you'd never shown
up to school this morning?”
When she walks over to me, I notice tears caught in her
eyelashes. I open my mouth, but no words came out. This is
exactly why I haven't told her the whole truth about the
panic attacks. It's why I've been trying to be better
behaved. Those tears in her eyes, and the fight I feel
coming, is exactly the kind of conflict I've been trying to
avoid.
“If you ever again tell me you're going to school or
you're going anywhere, and then I find out you're
somewhere else, there won't be a discussion. It's not okay.
It never has been in this house.”
I heave a sigh, and I feel something dark creeping up
and out of me.
“ ‘In this house,' Momma? Seriously? You're hardly ever
in this house. It's like you don't even notice that I'm here
unless I do something that upsets you!”
I'm surprised at myself. I never talk back to Mom. I
stand up and kind of back away from her.
She blinks hard, and the tears that were hanging on the
edges of her lashes suddenly fall like stones. I expect her to
ask who I think I'm talking to or to tell me to go to my
room. But something about her has softened. What she says
is “How can you say that, Shay?”
I don't answer right away because I thought she'd get
angrier, not ask a question. I pull off the beanie I'm wearing
today—Sasha's candy cane one—and I look at it instead of
Mom while I talk.
“Because it's true. I'm sorry, Momma, you know it's
true. Sasha got sick. And it was like you disappeared. You
were working most of the time, and with Sasha the rest of
it. And look, it's fine because she needed you more—believe
me, I get it. Sometimes it just feels like now that she's
gone, you don't know how to love a kid who isn't dying.”
As I say it out loud, I realize it's true. She's just looking
at me, so I wonder if she doesn't get it. I keep talking,
trying to explain.
“Maybe you're so used to worrying all the time that
when I do something good, you don't know what to say. But
the second something bad happens, you're all over me.”
I look at her again. I hate looking directly at her for
more than a few seconds. The mask she always wore to
protect her sick kid from everything she was feeling has
melted away, and sometimes there's no shield left for me.
The raw emotion that's on her face right now reminds me
of the way Rohan looks sometimes—like it hurts him to see
another person walking around with Sasha's face.
I pull the hat back down over my hair. Even if I'm right
about her needing the burden of worry to show love, I still
hate that I've failed her again.
“Like I said. You don't need to worry about me, okay?
I'm fine.” I hear Sasha say, Shay, you're not. You need her.
But I don't listen.
“I can take care of myself,” I mutter more to Sasha than
Mom, but part of me hopes they both hear. “I've been doing
it for years.”
JAN. 27, 7:56 A.M.
I forgot you were dead this morning.
I woke up, and while I was still in a sleepy haze, I reached
for my phone and looked for your name.
When I remembered, I couldn't breathe.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Jan. 28, 1:56 am
Subject: <none>
I almost chopped all my hair off last night. I was brushing
my teeth when I noticed one of my stick-straight hairs
coiled in the sink. My hair has gotten so long. There is so
much of it weighing me down. I can't get rid of the weight
of your absence, but my hair seemed so easy to part with
in the wake of everything else.
I was only a few seconds away from doing it when my
dad opened the bathroom door. I guess I was in there for
a while. He called my name a few times, and I didn't
answer. I don't remember hearing anything, but that's why
he got nervous enough to come inside.
He took the scissors away and said, “What the shit,
Autumn?” He sounded just like Willow. He looked so
freaked out, like he thought I might hurt myself or
something. Then he called for my mom.
She was totally calm, though. She stepped into the
bathroom and then tucked my hair behind my ears. She
said, “I'll take you to get it cut tomorrow. Pick out a style.
Something different from anything you've ever had. We'll
get it cut however you want.” So I'm working on it. But I'm
not sure how I feel about making such a big decision
without you.
Since I can't seem to stay away from your house, your
room, or your brother, I'm sitting in your den with my
headphones on, looking at celebrity haircuts. Dante's
catching up on homework. He's finally come back to school.
Every now and then, I tilt my laptop in his direction and ask
if he thinks a certain cut would work on my face.
He looks at each photo, and then he looks at me for a
little too long, and at first, I wonder if he's trying to match
these white celebrities' hairstyles with my Asian features.
But then he just says, “Your hair's fine” or “You're
distracting me.” I keep asking, though, and he continues to
look and offer some kind of answer.
After a while, I leave him alone, and I start imagining
what you would be saying instead.
You'd change the subject. You'd say something about
me needing to become a role model for Korean girls
everywhere who might be looking for the right haircut.
Like There aren't enough famous Asian people, Autumn. Or
You could totally be the first adopted and the first Korean
Miss America or something.
After an hour of searching for hairstyles, I start to see
what you meant when you said stuff like that. Since I'm not
having much luck with celebrities, I pull up Willow's profile
because she's always been so much more adventurous with
her hair than I am with mine. I wade through her varied
bangs and streaks of blond and angled bobs—and the
pictures of a few of her Asian friends—looking for ideas.
But inevitably, your profile pulls me in like a magnet.
Not for hair, obviously. Mine will never be as curly and
wild as yours. But I click on your face and go through the
photographs one by one, anyway, for what feels like the
millionth time.
I'm looking at a picture of us standing on top of one of
those giant boulders in Central Park. I'm trying to
remember what else we did on that day trip to the city,
quizzing myself on the tiny forgettable facts about our life
together—I want to remember everything I possibly can
about you. When I go back to my feed and start scrolling,
there's a post with your name on it that stops me cold.
Tavia V. Soto and 267 others like Unraveling Lovely.
I take my hands away from the trackpad, like it's
suddenly gone hot, and the thought that immediately
comes to mind isn't one that makes sense. It is cold and
painful, and the truth of it makes me want to double over.
Tavia V. Soto doesn't like anything anymore.
I must say it out loud, because Dante looks up from his
screen and pauses for a second, waiting for me to go on.
When I don't, he closes his laptop, leans toward mine, and
says, “What?”
I feel my chest tightening and my face getting warm. I
feel my breath getting away from me. I close my laptop and
move it slowly to the coffee table.
“Autumn, what?” Dante says again.
I stand up, and I make it all the way to the door before
your brother grabs my wrist. I pull against him, trying to
escape, but he holds on until I turn around.
Tears are falling by the time I look at him, a torrent of
them, and when Dante sees my face, his looks dark and full
like the sky before it rains.
“I've gotta get out of here.” I choke out. “Let me go. I
can't breathe.”
When his grip loosens, I pull away and run out into the
backyard without my coat or my shoes.
The air is icy, promising rain or snow, and the ground is
freezing cold under my bare feet. But I hardly feel it.
There's a pain in my throat that I've never felt before, like
there's something dangerous inside me, clawing its way
out.
As soon as I can get a full breath, I let out a
tremendous sob. I run across your lawn until I get to the
big oak, right beside the fence. Dante's right behind me.
When I collapse against the tree, I grip the trunk and
my body won't stop shaking. I need something to hold on
to, and I guess Dante decides that thing should be him. He
pries my hands away from the tree and pulls me toward
him, and for a second, I fall against his chest and bunch the
fabric of his shirt in my fists.
“She's gone” is what I say whenever the tears slow
enough for me to use my voice. “She's gone, and she's
never coming back. How is it possible that she's never
coming back?”
I think about never calling you again. About never
seeing another movie with you. About how we'll never
share another secret. And I look up at Dante, because just
like your dad, he has always known how to make things
better. But right now, he's just chewing on his bottom lip. I
realize then that's why his lips always look so plump and
swollen.
When he doesn't say anything, I shove him away from
me. I push him so hard and so suddenly that he trips over
the roots of the tree and falls into the grass.
“You think you know me, right?” I say, standing over
him. “You think you always know what I'm thinking? How I
feel? Well, did you know that Tavia will always be more
important to me than some…guy?”
I scrub at my face, and my voice is choked and even
crueler when I start talking again.
“I would go back and change everything if I could have
been with her instead of you that night.”
Dante's nostrils flare a few times. He's gritting his
teeth, so his jaw is working. Then he surprises me. His eyes
fill up and spill over. I thought he was going to yell right
back. But he's crying.
“Fuck, Autumn,” he says, as if I'm a kid and he has to
explain something simple. “She was my sister. You don't
think I feel the same way?”
He turns like he's about to go back inside, but then he
spins back around to face me, fast.
“Why do you think I didn't go to that party?” he asks.
I haven't thought about it, but Dante likes parties as
much as you do. He closes his eyes and puts his hands into
his hair.
“I was going to drive you guys there. But Tavia told me
you weren't going. So I stayed home and called to see if
you wanted to hang out with me.”
“What?” I ask, even though the truth of what he's
saying has already hit me hard and knocked me hollow.
“I was going to go to the party, to hang out with you. I
should have been driving. I should have been there…,”
Dante says in the torn version of his voice.
I can't look at him anymore, so I turn and look at the
gate. My toes are almost completely numb from the cold,
but before I can stop myself, I'm running to my car without
my shoes or coat, backpack or laptop.
And almost as soon as I wrench the door open, it starts
sleeting.
I sit in your driveway and cry in my car because there's
no way I'm driving through a storm, but I can't go back into
your house, either. Your brother stands out there in the
freezing rain for way too long before going inside.
When the storm passes, I don't go back into the house.
Dante eventually comes through the front door a few
minutes after the rain stops, wearing a clean white T-shirt,
sweatpants, and slippers. He has all my stuff. He taps on
my window, and when I roll it down, I can smell your
shampoo in his still-wet hair.
I don't say anything when he pushes all my things into
my lap. I just toss it into the backseat and reverse out of
the driveway as soon as I can get my key into the ignition. I
drive fifteen miles per hour all the way home because even
though the sleet has stopped, it's almost impossible for me
to see through my tears.
I call Willow. I wail and sob, and she asks if I need her
to come home. I say that I do, which I normally would not
have admitted, and when we hang up, I hear my dad's
phone ring. I know it's Willow who's called because he
comes into my room a few minutes later. He hovers by the
door with a cup of tea and a DVD. I wonder where my mom
is, but I don't ask, and I can't tell what movie he's holding
because my eyes are so swollen.
“You can come in,” I say, and my voice is all scratchy
from the crying.
He hands me the mug, and it's still steaming. When I
take a sip, the warm liquid soothes my throat. He added so
much honey that it hurts my teeth a little bit, but I don't
complain.
He doesn't say anything, but he grabs my laptop and
sits beside me on my bed. He's looking for the disc drive to
play the movie. My laptop doesn't have one.
“How do you work this thing?” he says. He flips the
computer over. By now he has to have realized there isn't a
place for the DVD, but he always takes things way too far.
He closes the laptop and shakes it by his head, as if it's a
Christmas present. He taps it like a caveman.
I start laughing.
“Dad,” I say. He looks at me. “Just get your computer.”
He comes back with it a few minutes later, and inserts
the DVD, and when it starts to play, I realize it's a home
movie of you and me.
We're in the backyard blowing bubbles and chasing
each other, two tiny dark-haired kids we'll never be again.
We have on birthday hats, but it has to be my party and not
yours because it's just Willow, Dante, and the two of us.
I lean against my dad's shoulder. And even though he
knows it's coming, he still chuckles when you blow out my
birthday candles.
Faye texts later that night. She says she talked to Alexa
and that she's mostly come around. Margo's still being
weird, but Faye's next message reads: The girl is going to
have to get over herself. And some small part of me is glad
that at least Faye's on my side. She invites me to sit with
them again, but something about that—needing to be
invited to sit at my own lunch table—feels wrong. I tell her
it's okay, that I'll stick to my new table for now, because
you dying has changed a lot of things. But most of all, its
stirred up something in me that I haven't felt in years.
I've always known that being adopted means that at the
very beginning of my life, there was someone who at best
couldn't keep me, and at worst, didn't want me. But I never
really felt the pain of that rejection because I can't
remember a time when I wasn't loved. I had my mom and
dad. I had Willow. I had you.
But I have always had this gaping hole in my life where
my biological parents were missing. Just this feeling that
there was a part of myself I would never know. And you
being gone is just another blank space that I know will
never be filled. I don't want to let Margo, Faye, and Alexa
back in just yet because I'm worried they'll try to fit into
the space in my heart that will always belong to you.
Just before midnight, Dante calls. When I pick up and
say hello, he hangs up without saying anything back. I
think he just wanted to make sure I made it home okay. I'd
finally stopped crying, after the tea, the video, and sending
you an email, but I stare at his name on my phone and start
right back up again.
BRAM IS BORED so he sees how long he can stand on his
head. (SPOILER ALERT: he passes out.)
6,139 views | 5 months ago
Yara and a bunch of other girls I only kinda recognize are
leaning against my locker when I get out of last period, and
for a second, I'm really confused. I look behind me to see if
it's possible that they're waiting for someone else, but then
Yara waves and smiles. I notice Paige, a redhead who's also
on the cheerleading team, holding a cupcake carrier, and I
remember why they're waiting for me.
“Shit. It's today, isn't it?” I ask as I unzip my backpack
and dump all my books into my locker.
“Yep,” Yara says. “We're heading over there, like, right
now.”
She reaches out to straighten my collar, like we're
besties; like it's not weird as hell for her to be touching me.
But I'm so surprised that I don't move away. She smooths it
down with her delicate little fingers.
“Are you nervous? You look like you're freaking out,”
she says, stretching her eyes wide. A few of the girls
giggle.
“I'm not fucking nervous,” I say, shouldering my bag
again.
“ ‘I'm not fucking nervous,' ” Paige repeats, and it
should piss me off, but the impression is pretty spot-on. I
crack a smile.
“Bram always said his mom liked you better than
anyone he'd ever dated. Including me,” Yara says, tucking
her hair behind her ear. The studs in her lobes sparkle in
the sun coming through the closest window. “Don't be
nervous.”
“Are you nervous?” Paige says to Yara. “This is gonna
suck for you too. I mean, you loved him. You were with him
through everything, all the way till the end.”
That pisses me off. But Yara just looks down. Then she
changes the subject.
“This is weird, right?” she says as we walk to the
parking lot. I shrug, because, yeah, it's weird as hell, but I
don't really want to talk about it. I'm still processing what
Nico told me, about Bram being his dealer, but I want to
take advantage of being here with Yara, too.
We're taking a few different cars, so the girls branch off
in different directions, but Yara waves me toward her 4x4.
“You don't drive, right?” she asks. I shake my head. “Do
you talk?” she continues with a grin. I nod. I thought it
would be hard talking to her, but it seems like it might be
really easy. You know those people who are charming
without even trying? Genuine and annoyingly nice? That's
Yara. It's like I can't be an ass to her, no matter how badly I
want to.
“I talk sometimes,” I say eventually.
“Well, don't worry. I won't make you,” she teases.
We climb into her truck and buckle up.
“I know this is weird, but we should just try to be there
for Ms. Lassiter today. Her first birthday without him?
That's bigger than you and me. The thing is—” Yara starts,
squeezing her hands together, as if she's nervous. But she
doesn't really get to finish because Paige appears out of
nowhere and taps on her window. Yara jumps.
“They don't have any space left for me,” Paige pouts.
“Can I ride with you guys?”
With Paige in the car, Yara doesn't really talk much to
me, and I wonder what it was she was about to say. I'm a
little upset I can't use the ride over to ask her about Bram,
but I just use the time to plan what I'll say when I get the
chance.
When we get to Bram's apartment building, I feel goose
bumps creeping up my spine like ants. I haven't been inside
his place in forever, and the last time I was here was the
day we broke up. I remember the way his room smelled,
like Axe body spray and hair gel, and the way the couch in
his living room squeaked when you sat down on the center
cushion. There's a burn mark in the carpet by the window
that leads to the fire escape from when I dropped a lit joint
as I was climbing back inside one day. And worst of all, Ms.
Lassiter is in there, with the same tan skin, curly brown
hair, and insanely green eyes as Bram.
I don't want to go inside.
“Let's go inside,” Yara says, pressing the buzzer. Her
nails are painted a sparkly shade of pink. Seeing her face
this like a badass when all I want to do is hide makes me
feel like the biggest wuss ever.
“Who is it?” comes Ms. Lassiter's voice, sounding tinny
and robotic through the ancient speaker on the door.
Instead of answering, a few of the black girls on the
squad start singing the Stevie Wonder version of the happy
birthday song. I join in, only because it's the Stevie Wonder
version.
Other than Aden and Nico, I haven't sung in front of
anyone since last summer, so I think I forgot how much I
love an audience. About halfway through the verse, the
girls stop singing one by one, but the change is so gradual,
and I'm so into it, that I don't notice until my voice is the
only one left.
When I open my eyes (I hadn't even realized I'd closed
them), everyone's staring at me.
“What the hell?” I say to them, and a few of them start
fanning their faces or pretending to faint. Like I'm Paul
McCartney or something. Yara smiles at me.
“I forgot you sounded like that,” she says, and I wonder
how the hell she knows. She doesn't seem like the type to
go to shows, but maybe I prejudged her.
I look away because, dammit, I feel heat creeping up
my neck. I can't believe Yara Cruz of all people is making
me fucking blush.
Ms. Lassiter's staticky voice comes through the speaker
again.
“Well. I'd know that voice anywhere. Come on up,
Logan. And whoever else is with you.”
Yara smirks. And Paige looks at me, like I'm her best
fucking friend. She links her arm through mine and pushes
me through the door when it buzzes long and loud. I
swallow hard and step into the building.
When Ms. Lassiter opens her door, she's in pajamas.
The cute kind that have a matching top and bottom, but it's
still depressing as hell to see her dressed like that at threethirty in the afternoon. Especially since it's her birthday.
“Happy birthday,” the girls say, their voices a chorus of
squeals that make me flinch. Yara's holding the cupcakes
now, which she places on the coffee table. When Ms.
Lassiter sees them, she smiles a sad smile and pats her hair
nervously, as if she's only just realized what she looks like.
“Girls,” she says, like I'm not standing here. “I can't
believe this!”
The cupcakes are red velvet, her favorite, and I know
from the ride over that Yara's mom made the cream cheese
frosting for her because after three tries, Yara still hadn't
gotten it right.
Ms. Lassiter looks at me and purses her lips. She looks
even more like Bram than I remember. I walk over to her
because she's a magnet, just like her son was. Before I
even realize what's happening, she's hugging me really
tightly.
“Thank you for coming,” she mutters into my ear
between sniffs. She says this only to me, even though her
house is full of pretty girls in short skirts with cupcakes
and ice cream. People who actually did remember it was
her birthday, when I didn't, because I was too preoccupied
with watching her late son's dumb videos.
“Of course,” I say. I hug her a little tighter. She doesn't
know this wasn't my idea, but maybe that doesn't matter.
“So,” Yara says. “What have you been up to today, Ms.
L?”
While they talk, I make my way through the apartment.
I stick my head into their extra bedroom, and I see that she
hasn't gotten rid of any of Bram's books. I pour myself a
cup of coffee in the kitchen, and Bram's last report card, a
mediocre mix of Bs and Cs that's pretty similar to my own,
is still stuck to the fridge, magnetic poetry pieces for the
words “chocolate” and “sky” holding it in place. I try and
fail to ignore the fact that this is where Unraveling Lovely
got its name.
He and I were messing around with the magnetic
poetry on his fridge one day, giggling like little kids at our
shitty attempts at art. As we stumbled through perverted
poems and stilted stanzas, we somehow lined up the words
“unraveling” and “lovely.”
“That would be an awesome name for your band,” he
said, even though I didn't have my own band at the time.
Bram was the only person other than my parents who had
ever heard me sing. In every band I'd ever been in before
UL I just played guitar and stayed quiet. After he found
some crappy, scribbled lyrics on a napkin I left behind at a
lunch table, he pulled it out of me that my dream was to
become a famous singer-songwriter.
With him egging me on, I started Unraveling Lovely. We
entered Battle of the Bands and were selected to play live,
and after all that, he dumped me right before the concert. I
showed up late and wasted because I couldn't imagine
singing songs about him sober. We were disqualified when I
puked onstage, and the BotB officials figured out it was
alcohol related and not just a stomach bug.
The memory makes my heart beat like crazy, so I
stumble away from the fridge. I go into the bathroom to
take a piss before heading back to the living room. But
before I even catch my reflection in the mirror, I spot
something on the sink that stops me dead: Bram's green
toothbrush. It's still in the small glass cup beside his
mom's. It's leaning against hers, like it can't stand up on its
own, and it makes me feel sadder than anything else in this
apartment has. I stare at it for a while, feeling torn up and
reckless, forcing away the urge to put it in my mouth and
taste it. To put it in my mouth, hoping to taste him.
Another memory comes out of nowhere, and it's so
vivid that I almost choke: Bram used to let me borrow his
toothbrush. Whenever we drank or smoked and I needed to
cover the smell; if ever I fell asleep and ended up spending
the night. He'd give me one of his wrinkled T-shirts or put
his gel in my hair, or spray me with too much of his
cologne. And he'd lend me his shitty toothbrush and kiss
me hard and long while my mouth was still foamy.
The bristles are smashed to hell, as if he'd kept it for
way too long. I step farther inside the bathroom and close
the door and keep watching the toothbrush; like if I look
away, it will disappear. I put down the lid on the toilet and
sit. I pick it up, and as I hold it in my hand I start to cry.
Because…Fuck.
Before I leave, I flush the toilet, even though I didn't
piss.
After the toothbrush, I rejoin everyone else in the living
room, afraid of being destroyed by another random thing
he touched or owned or used.
I want to leave.
I can't leave.
Almost the whole cheerleading squad is here, and the
girls are spread out around the small living room, sitting on
the arms of the couch, the floor, the windowsills. Ms.
Lassiter is in the kitchen making more coffee and hot
chocolate and boiling water for Yara, who only drinks
herbal tea, because of course she does. I lean against the
wall closest to the stove and watch Ms. Lassiter's small,
steady hands while she fills the kettle with water.
She hands me a cupcake right away, like she knows I
was just crying in her bathroom over a toothbrush. I shove
more than half of it into my mouth, eating it the way Aden
eats everything.
“It's so good to see you, Logan,” she says again. “I was
hoping you'd come around.”
I take another big bite from the cupcake and nod
because I don't trust myself to say the right thing. I smile
around the food in my mouth and lick the icing from my
fingers.
“Do me a favor and grab a few mugs out of that
cabinet, would you?” she asks me.
She points to a door near my elbow, so I open it and
start pulling down cups.
“There's, like, a million girls in there,” I say, peering
through the doorway and counting cheerleaders and then
counting out mugs. Ms. Lassiter smiles.
“That was Bram,” she says as she twists her hair into a
bun and sticks a chopstick from the counter through it;
easing back into mom-mode without even realizing it.
“He always drew a crowd. Everybody loved him.”
“Especially cheerleaders,” I mutter, and she laughs a
little, but a second later, when I look back up, she's staring
at me kind of seriously.
“You and Yara seem like you're in a good place,” she
says.
I shrug. “We're okay, I guess. She seems like she wants
to be friends or something.”
I tell her about her inviting me to come over with them.
Then I ask, “Is Yara this…handsy…with everyone?”
“I think so,” she says, kind of laughing. “She braided
my hair the first day I met her.”
I'd forgotten how easy Ms. Lassiter is to talk to. It's
hard to forget that she's where Bram got his looks, but
after hanging out with her for fifteen minutes, I remember
that she gave him all his infuriating charm, too.
“I'm glad you and Yara are becoming friends. You guys
knew him better than anyone,” she says, ruffling my hair a
little. “I was a little worried that you'd blame her.”
I frown and stop fiddling with the mugs. I was lining
them up according to color: reds and oranges, then greens
and blues.
“Blame her? For what?”
“For what happened,” she says. Ms. Lassiter lowers her
voice and glances over her shoulder. The cheerleaders have
switched on the TV and are watching The Real Housewives
of Somewhere. “With Bram,” she almost whispers.
“Why would I blame Yara?”
“I thought you might think…” Ms. Lassiter trails off
when Paige comes into the kitchen. I hand her two mugs
with coffee and one with hot chocolate. The other girls
trickle in to grab hot drinks, and the whole time my insides
are screaming because I want to know what the hell Ms.
Lassiter is talking about. We finally hand Yara her hot
water, and then she takes forever picking out a flavor of
tea.
When she leaves, I look back at Ms. Lassiter. She hands
me a mug, but I just put it down on the counter and wait
for her to say whatever she was about to say.
“He had so much going on,” she says. She cradles a cup
in her own hands and then sits down at the small kitchen
table. There are only two chairs. “There was that tape and
all the awful messages people were sending him. He lost
his scholarships. Did you know about that?”
I shake my head. I didn't even know he had
scholarships. Ms. Lassiter stirs her coffee and then clears
her throat the way Bram used to.
“There was a random drug test at school. And I guess
he failed it,” she says. She shakes her head. “I should have
known. His behavior was a little off, but I never would have
guessed that he was…on drugs. A mother should know
these things.”
I shrug because I don't know what I can say, but she
probably doesn't know he was dealing, either.
“I know that losing the scholarships was bad—he
desperately wanted to go to college. And I know that he
was probably so embarrassed about that and everything
else that was happening. But it was a rough patch. It would
have been fine if he'd given it some time—I tried to tell him
that. Money was tight, but we could have figured out how
to pay for school.”
“But wait—what does any of that have to do with Yara?”
Ms. Lassiter sighs. “Well, I thought you'd think this all
happened because Yara broke up with him, but I just
wanted you to know there were so many things piling up.
And you know Bram. It was like he didn't understand that
there are some things that are out of his control. He was so
stubborn. He refused to ask for help.”
She shakes her head again and looks out the window.
She's crying a little. A pigeon is perched on the ledge, and
it shits right there while we're staring at it.
I hand Ms. Lassiter a napkin from the dispenser, but all
I can think is: When did Yara break up with him?
“Do you mind,” I ask her before she can say anything
else, “if I go to his room?”
She presses her lips together. “No, of course not,
honey. Do whatever you need to. If there's something of his
you find in there that you'd like to take with you, just let me
know.”
I nod and head to the back of their apartment. Bram's
room is at the end of the hall. I wonder if Yara broke up
with him because of what happened at the party with Nico
or for some other reason, because they were definitely still
together after the sex tape was released. Yara either
believed all the rumors—that I was behind it, that it had
been recorded months before—or she just forgave him.
So they stuck it out for a while, but I guess at some
point they didn't. And since everyone is still treating her
like the grieving girlfriend, I bet no one knows they broke
up. I guess everyone has secrets, even sweet little Yara.
I start to see how Bram could have been unraveling
with all the things that were going to shit. His life was
collapsing in on itself. Imploding. It's not hard to imagine
all the little pieces adding up like Ms. Lassiter said. Throw
drugs into the mix, and yeah—a person you think you know
well can easily become a stranger.
I ease my way through Bram's bedroom door more
slowly than I entered the bathroom; then I slowly glance
around.
The bed is stripped, and the dresser is cleared off
almost completely, and it smells wrong—like cleaning
chemicals and artificial lemon instead of Axe body spray
and hair gel. The hardwood floor is shiny, and his rug has
been vacuumed clean—no food crumbs or random socks in
sight.
I suddenly realize that the police were probably here at
some point going through all his shit, looking for clues.
Maybe Ms. Lassiter cleaned because they dusted for
fingerprints and touched his stuff. She had to wipe away
most of the traces of him to get rid of the traces of them.
It's depressing as hell to think about.
Even though the furniture and floor are pretty sterile,
his walls seem mostly untouched. There are posters of a
few crappy Top 40 bands that I hate, and one small framed
picture of Bram and his mom. There's one of those strips
from a photo booth stuck into the edge of his mirror. When
I get closer I see that it's him and Yara smiling, him and
Yara sticking out their tongues, him and Yara…making out.
I turn around, and there are black-and-white
photographs of graffiti and street art decorating almost half
of the north wall. And I can't help but grin. Because of
course Bram was a goddamn secret hipster.
There's one street art photo in particular that catches
my eye, new since I was last here. It's of a big piece of
paper that's been plastered on a brick wall. In the middle of
the white is a single sentence in typewriter font:
For the sensitive among us,
sometimes the noise
is just too much.
I pivot again, and I see the image of the headstone from
Slaughterhouse-Five: “Everything was beautiful, and
nothing hurt.” It looks like he ripped the epitaph right out
of the book. I run my fingers over the letters of the quote,
missing his corny, happy-go-lucky attitude like crazy. But
apparently, he hadn't been that person in a long time.
I hear a noise, and when I turn around, Yara's standing
in the doorway watching me. And I feel strange. Not mad.
Not sad. Just weird.
She steps into the room and closes the door behind her.
She looks around, and her chin starts trembling, and before
I can say anything, Yara is crying.
I'm not one of those people who melts at the sight of a
girl crying, but Yara is such a girl. Something about her
standing there, in her pink Uggs and polka-dot leggings,
just rips me up. She looks too…innocent.
“Hey,” I say. “Don't cry.” I feel like such a cliché, but I
point to the bed.
“Want to sit?” I ask her. She sits down. I stay standing
and shove my hands into my pockets.
“I know Ms. Lassiter told you,” she whispers. “I was
talking to her, and she said she was so glad we were
getting along, and I knew.”
I nod.
“I kinda freaked a little bit when I realized. Luckily, no
one else was in the kitchen. I asked her not to say anything
to anyone else. And I know you hate me, but no one else
knows so you can't tell.”
“It's not that I hate you,” I say, realizing it's true. “I just
—” I'm not sure how to finish, so I go with “Look, I won't
say anything, okay?”
“I don't want them to blame me,” she says.
I tell her I get it, because I do.
She mostly stops crying and wipes her eyes with her
sleeve, and I feel more relieved than uncomfortable when
she stands up and hugs me. She walks over to Bram's
mirror and fiddles with the photo strip.
“He talked about it sometimes. He talked about it the
night we broke up,” Yara says.
“What? Dying?” I ask, and she nods. “Shit, Yara.”
“I know,” she says. Her eyes are full again, and her
voice is shaking. “We broke up. He basically said he wanted
to die. Then two weeks later he was gone. I should have
told someone,” she says so softly that I barely hear her. She
takes a deep breath and looks at me. “I have dreams where
he's still alive because I told someone.”
Maybe it's the room, or Yara's tender eyes, but I say, “I
have dreams where I'm killing him. Where I'm the reason
he's dead.”
I look at Yara, wishing I could blame every bad thing
that happened to Bram on her. And part of me does blame
her. But no more, I guess, than how much I blame myself or
the guy in the video. The trolls, the drugs, or Bram himself.
“If it's anyone's fault,” Yara says, “it's Nico's.”
I pull my hand away from hers. At some point she
started holding it.
“Wait…what?” I ask.
“Yeah. He's the one who got Bram started with the
drugs. He's the only reason Bram was using.”
She sees how shocked I am by this information. “He
told me Bram was his dealer,” I say.
She rolls her still-wet eyes. “It was the other way
around.”
I'm having a slight problem keeping my shit together. I
was going to try to be Nico's friend again, maybe even ask
him to play in my band, and he lied to me? But I don't have
any time to digest the news because Yara keeps talking.
“I've been seeing someone; like, a therapist or
whatever. And part of my treatment—God, I feel so stupid
saying that—is that I'm supposed to figure out a way to,
like, say goodbye. Since I didn't go to the…funeral.”
I look over at her again, wondering why she would skip
the funeral, wondering why I didn't notice her missing. The
church was packed, filled with everyone from geeks to
jocks, but I bet the absence of someone as high-profile as
Yara—one of the most popular members of the
cheerleading team and his fucking girlfriend, as far as
everyone there knew—probably didn't go unnoticed by
most.
“So I'm having this thing at my house next Saturday. It
was my mom's idea, but I basically have to go along with it.
It's a candlelight vigil, where me and a few friends will,
like, talk about him.”
She walks back over to the mirror, so that her back is to
me, but her reflection is looking at mine.
“I'm really glad you came today. It's honestly a relief to
have someone who knows about the breakup besides me
and Ms. Lassiter.”
She sits on the bed beside me again.
“I was going to ask you this in the car, but do you want
to come to the vigil? My parents won't be there or
anything; it's more for us to try to get over what happened.
To, like, deal with it in a way that makes it less scary or
whatever.”
We hear music playing a few minutes later, and Yara
and I look at each other. We want to see what's going on, so
I don't really have a chance to answer her question. She
dabs at her face in the mirror for a few minutes, and when
she's ready, we walk into the living room. Ms. Lassiter,
Paige, and a few of the other girls have pushed the coffee
table against a wall, and they're having a dance party in
the middle of the floor.
An EDM song is playing, one of Bram's favorites. So
when Paige grabs one of Yara's hands, and one of mine, I
hesitate, but only for a second. I can't do anything about
the Nico news here, and this is a damn good song. I strut to
the middle of the room. I bust a few of Bram's signature
moves, and Ms. Lassiter laughs. I dance with Yara and
Paige and then all by myself, until my feet ache, and later,
after I hug Ms. Lassiter goodbye and we all head for the
door, I tap Yara on the shoulder.
“I'll come to the vigil,” I say, thinking of Gertrude.
She'll eat this up. “I want to say goodbye to him the right
way too.”
But first, I need some answers from Nico.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…TIDY DARK
PLACES
Looks like: idk, homework? Lots of big words in these
lyrics.
Sounds like: the pretentious a-holes you hear at coffee
shops, tbh
2/5
“Come somewhere with me after school?”
Jerome doesn't use question words like “will” or “can”
or “do.” He just starts with the part of the sentence that
counts most, and I kind of love that about him.
He's wearing a blazer with elbow patches today. I
wonder where he gets these clothes—if they're hand-medowns or if he picks them out at thrift stores or
consignment shops just as they are.
I don't ask him, though. I don't ask Jerome much of
anything because I'm worried that if I start asking
questions about him, he'll start asking things about me. But
I do feel like I can't avoid the conversation he wants to
have about “us” for much longer.
I pluck the front of the shirt he's wearing under the
blazer, and the fabric is surprisingly soft between my
fingers. Something about the way he's looking at me makes
me want to press my cheek against his chest. He takes my
wrist in his hand and pulls me closer, like he knows or
something, and I settle my face there right against his
heart.
“Where do you wanna go?” I ask him. “I'm kind of
grounded.”
“Nowhere far,” he says. “Trust me.”
And even though we've only been kissing for six short
weeks, I do.
I leave my bike locked up outside of school and we hop
on the bus as soon as the bell rings. And I close my eyes
and kiss him for most of the twenty minutes it takes the bus
to go seven stops, hoping I can delay the inevitable.
“We're here,” Jerome says, and when I open my eyes,
we're at the stop closest to Rohan's house.
“But why are we here?” I ask him as he takes my hand
and leads me off the bus. Jerome doesn't answer. With his
fingers curled around mine, I wonder if this is what it
would be like to be officially his. For him to be mine. And
because I'm so distracted by the question of what it would
be like if we were boyfriend-girlfriend and not just make-
out buddies that I forget about my question until we get to
Rohan's.
“J,” I say when we're standing outside of Ro's garage.
“What's going on?”
“It's kind of a surprise.” he says, and since we're still
holding hands I allow myself to be led forward.
—
They're all in Rohan's garage.
Callie is sitting on the floor, her long, denim-covered
legs twisted into a pretzel. Deedee is leaning against the
far wall with her earbuds in, her thick hair wrestled into
two adorable puffballs, one on either side of her head.
Rohan is sitting on a milk crate, strumming his acoustic
guitar.
“Hey, guys. What's up?”
No one says anything for a few seconds, which is super
weird, but they look at one another, which is weirder.
Deedee takes her earbuds out, and her and Callie's eyes
meet. And Rohan looks right through me, at Jerome. That's
when I see Deedee's eyes get a little shiny. I look around at
my friends, and the whole setup, with everyone hanging
around awkwardly, not quite looking at me seems all too
familiar. Then it hits me, where I've seen this exact
scenario dozens of times before.
“You guys. Oh my god. Is this an intervention?”
I start laughing. I know from the show that this is
supposed to be a serious moment, but I don't think it needs
to be. And I want to keep the mood light, keep everyone
happy. That's what I've wanted all along.
“Dee, you don't need to cry,” I say.
But then Jerome's deep voice sweeps around from
behind me like a warm breeze, and his words are so gentle
that they immediately make my smile disappear.
“My granddad died last year,” he says.
I turn to look at him. His eyes are misty, and he looks
like he needs a smoke.
“I know he was old, so it's different from Sasha. But it
messed me up for a while.”
This is the most I've heard Jerome talk (maybe it's the
most I've let him talk), and I stare at him, feeling sad that
I'm learning something so important only now. “I didn't
know that,” I say, looking up at him. “I feel like I should
have known that.”
Jerome shrugs. “It's cool.”
But it really isn't. Every person is a well, and
everything I know about Jerome could fit on a leaf floating
atop the dark depths of him.
“I couldn't take it, you know?” he continues. “He lived
with us near the end, so after he died, I would do weird
shit, like stand in his room for hours not doing anything.
Just staring. Then I started getting nervous about stuff that
never made me nervous before.”
My palms get sweaty in crowded spaces now. I can't
misplace anything of Sasha's without losing my cool. I nod.
“I had a few panic attacks after that.”
I'm staring at Jerome, wondering how he could kiss me
when he knew exactly what was up with me. But then I
start to think that maybe that's why we started kissing in
the first place. We kissed for the first time after one of my
track meets, when I just kept running past the finish line
and out of the gym because someone called me Sasha by
mistake. I remember bumping into him in the hall and
noticing that he was wearing bright red suspenders, and he
coached my breathing back to normal. I'd known him for a
while, but in that moment, I wondered why I hadn't ever
noticed how kind his eyes were. I wondered why I hadn't
talked to him more at shows. Then I kissed him.
Something just clicks inside my head. I look at his
blazer. At his hand full of vintage rings. All of his hats and
overcoats, his oversize old-people clothes.
“You started wearing his clothes,” I say, thinking about
myself and Sasha's beanies.
Jerome nods. “My folks, they think therapy is only for
‘crazy people,' whatever that means. A lot of black people
think that.” He looks down and smiles a little. His eyes
come back up and stay steady, stuck to mine. “What's
worse, though? Telling someone that sometimes I miss my
granddad so much I can't breathe? Or dressing like a
seventy-year-old all of junior year?”
Everyone in the garage laughs a little bit, in that
awkward way people laugh when they're not sure if it's
okay. But my eyes are filling with tears.
“It's a distraction.” It's Rohan talking now. He sets his
guitar down on the concrete floor, stands up, and walks
over to me. “Pretending that you're okay, that you're better
than okay? ‘Look at my great grades!' ” He puts air quotes
around that and everything he says next. “ ‘Look at me! I
quit smoking!' and ‘I never miss curfew!' And yeah, I
mean…Those are all good things. But you're still sad, Shay.
I don't know how you wouldn't be. I am. And everyone sees
right through the rest of it—you pretending to be fine.”
I swallow hard and look around at them.
“You're freaking out all the time, and that can't be
good. It can't be healthy, and I can't…” He licks his lips and
shakes his head, making that face he always makes, like it
hurts him to look at me. “I don't know how it works exactly,
but I know panic attacks are a sign of depression. I looked
it up, and I found some pretty scary stuff.”
“Stop looking at me like that,” I say to him, almost
pleading. But he keeps his eyes on mine.
“I know you think I look at you some weird way or
something because you look like Sasha. But that's not it.
It's hard to look at you sometimes because I don't know
what I would do if something happened to you too.”
Callie comes over next. She hugs me and whispers in
my ear, “You haven't called me since she died. Not even
once.” As soon as she says it, I'm shocked. I hadn't thought
about it, but I know without a doubt that it's true.
Deedee's crying when it's her turn. She pulls out a
piece of paper, and I let out a weird half sob, half laugh.
“You wrote something down?” I ask.
“So I wouldn't forget when this happened!” She points
to her wet eyes. I laugh again and walk over so I can clean
off her tear-streaked glasses.
“ ‘Shay,' ” she reads once I've handed them back. “ ‘I
miss going to shows with the old you. I miss making
playlists for each other and sharing them. I miss showing
you my other photos—stuff not related to BAMF. And I miss
doing BAMF stuff with you, too. When was the last time you
stuck it out through a whole show? When was the last time
we had a meeting to talk about content for the blog?' ”
I know I've been neglecting BAMF. But Sasha was so on
top of everything that I didn't want to feel like I was
replacing her. I was hoping no one noticed. Well, I didn't
think Deedee did. Callie definitely did.
Deedee keeps reading.
“ ‘I started dating Olive, the lead singer from
Sunscream, and you don't even know about that. Because
you ran out of their last show, when Callie introduced us.
You didn't answer my texts when I invited you over last
weekend. And the last time I tried to tell you about her at
lunch, you disappeared.' ”
She continues, “ ‘I know losing a sister is a horrible
thing to have happen to you, but me, Callie, Ro, and
everyone—we lost her too. We just want to help. We think it
might be better for everyone if we figure out how to get
through this together.' ”
Everyone's crying now. And everything in me is dying
to run, to get away from them because it's all too much. It
hurts too much.
Just when I'm ready to push my way out of the garage,
Jerome hugs me. His soft shirt is against my cheek, and I
can hear his heart beating. Then I feel another pair of arms
around me: Rohan. Then Deedee is there, her bushy hair
tickling my ear, then Callie. I'm completely surrounded by
them in the best group hug I've ever been a part of, and
we're all ugly crying—big, gulping sobs.
“So will you get help today?” Rohan asks, borrowing a
line from my favorite show. And just like that, we're all
laughing.
I still want my sister desperately. I think I always will.
And though the weight of this kind of love won't replace
her, it might just make it so that I'm a little closer to okay.
—
When I get home, I work up the nerve and text Dante.
Talking to Jerome about his granddad had actually opened
up the part of me that wasn't willing to share my hurt
because I thought that no one would get it. But if Jerome
can understand what it's like to lose a sister after losing his
grandfather, I think Dante and I might be able to help each
other even more. It's weird that I don't know what to say
even though I just went through the exact same thing. But I
guess talking about losing someone you love is never easy.
I'm nervous, so I just send Hey.
He hasn't texted me back when Mom gets home, and
I'm so surprised to hear her enter the house before eight
that I head downstairs right away, with my phone in my
back pocket.
Mom glances up when I step into the dining room, but
she doesn't say anything, though she's brought home
takeout from our favorite Italian place. This is the first time
she's been back early enough for us to have dinner
together in forever, and we haven't really talked since I told
her I could take care of myself. I feel like I should apologize
for what I said, so I speak up first.
“Rohan just Interventioned me,” I say.
She looks up from the pasta she's spooning out onto
two plates. “What in the world does that mean?” she asks,
and I'm relieved that her face doesn't look tormented, the
way it did when we last talked.
I walk over to the table and take the plastic utensils out
of the bag. I put a fork on each of our plates. “All my
friends, they had an intervention for me. They said they're
worried about me. They think I'm depressed and having
panic attacks and not talking to anyone about how I'm
feeling about Sasha.” I sit down and look up at her. “So I
wanted to say sorry for how I reacted the other morning
when you brought up Coach's call. What happened at the
track meet was exactly why they were worried too.”
Mom sits down and nods along to everything I'm
saying. But when I apologize, she shakes her head, just
once. “No, Shay. You were right, at least partially, about
what you said. I do think I'm used to feeling anxious—to
being worried all the time. I've been holding on to that. So I
wanted to apologize to you.” She twirls some spaghetti with
her fork, but then she puts the fork down on the side of her
plate without eating any pasta. “I'm sorry that I've ignored
the positive changes you've been making. I have noticed
them, and I am proud of you. But worrying is kind of part of
the mom job description.”
I smile. I feel my phone vibrate, but I can't look at it
now.
“So,” she continues. “I've been trying to figure out if
there's anything else I can be doing for you. To start, I'm
going to make an effort not to leave you alone so much.
And when you said that word the other night, ‘twinless,' I
looked it up.”
My eyes go wide and I sit up straighter. It's weird to
hear Mom say the word that's been tormenting me for
weeks, so casually.
“I found something that I think might help.”
She picks up her phone from the table and taps around
the screen for a second. Then she places it back on the
table between us. It's an email, and at the top, I see that
word from my search. The heading says: Twinless Twins
Support Group. Once a Twin, Always a Twin.
I feel the weight on my chest almost immediately, and
it's suddenly harder than it should be to get air into my
lungs. Spots appear in front of my eyes, like some kind of
bad magic trick, and I'm almost certain I'm going to faint.
But I try to stay calm. I try to talk to Sasha, to get her to
tell me I'm okay. With her voice inside my head, we begin
to talk my body out of this quickly descending betrayal of
itself. Mom has never seen this happen to me, and I don't
want her to see it now.
She notices what's happening anyway. She stands up
and comes over to my side of the table.
“Look at me,” she says, but her face is full of pain, so I
want to close my eyes. I want to run away from the table. I
push my chair back.
“No, Shay,” she says. “Look at me.” I do. She takes my
hand and presses it against the base of her neck. Just like
Jerome did that day in the hallway, she tells me to breathe
with her. I try to. And it helps.
My heart is still pounding, but my breathing is a little
more even by the time she says, “I'll go with you, if you
want. But I think this is something you need to do.”
—
I go to my room after dinner and take out my phone to see
who was messaging me while I was talking to Mom. Dante
hasn't texted me back yet. The vibration I felt was a
message from Rohan.
I hope you're okay.
I am and I'm not, I guess, but I don't text him back. I
message Dante again. It hurts to think that he's going
through the same thing I am, but I still don't know what to
say. So I just start with something simple.
I heard about Tavia.
I'm so sorry.
I think of Rohan's message, and send the same thing to
Dante.
I hope you're okay.
Working on it, he replies suddenly, and those three
small words make me feel so much better, so much braver.
I'm working on it too.
“Shay?” Mom says. She's standing at my bedroom door.
“Want to watch TV for a little while?” I smile and look down
at my phone. It gives me an idea.
“Sure. And I was thinking: would you mind if I went to
the support group with someone else?”
JAN. 29, 1:23 P.M.
I haven't spoken to Dante in days. I miss him.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Feb. 1, 9:34 p.m.
Subject: <none>
I think the crying was a mistake.
Ever since that scene at your house in the yard with Dante,
I've been losing it constantly. I've gone from feeling hardly
anything at all to feeling everything all of the time.
If my parents were worried before, they're really worried
now. Willow too. She came home for the weekend. She's
trying to pretend she's here because she has a cavity and
needs to see Dr. Chen. But I know that she got her wisdom
teeth taken out by some random dentist in New
Hampshire, right near her school last year. I texted her
after I got myself together the other night and told her she
didn't need to come home, but then, I think my mom called
her. She might have even told her about the fight I had
with Dante.
Willow asks me to go with her to get bagels on Saturday
morning. I really just want to lie in bed, eat pistachio ice
cream, and listen to UL, but I agree, hoping it will make my
family stop being so weird. It's not until we get to the bagel
shop that I realize the last time I was here, I was with you.
“You mind if I chill in the car?” I ask Willow. I lie and
say, “I kinda just want to listen to some music.” The line is
a nightmare, so Willow pouts for a minute or so about me
keeping her company, but I'm more stubborn than she is,
and eventually, she gives up. I wave to her while she
shivers in the cold, and feeling like a bad sister is the only
thing helping me hold it together. As soon as she gets
inside, I lose it, and my hands are shaking so badly that I
can't even text her back when she asks if I want an
everything or a sesame seed bagel.
She didn't tell our parents about how upset I got in the
car, but she's been hovering around me ever since we got
back to the house. My mom noticed, though, and now she's
hovering too. To convince my family that everything really
is fine, to try to make everything be fine, I decide I want to
go to a beach party Saturday night.
It's the kind of thing you would have dragged me to.
The kind of thing I would have done anything to avoid. But
instead, I'm the one begging Willow to come with me. I'm
almost certain I'll only talk to her the whole time, but my
mom doesn't know that. She says, “Go ahead, girls. You two
haven't hung out together in a while.”
When I'm putting on my coat I hear my dad say, “It'll be
good to get her out of the house.” And Willow says, “No
shit.”
I wish they'd stop talking about me like I'm a little kid.
As soon as we park, I realize your brother's there. It's
cold and foggy, but I spot his dark hair, his green army
jacket, and his particular stance from where I'm standing,
about a quarter mile down the flat, gray beach.
“You hate stuff like this,” Willow says as she pulls her
hood up and steps out of our SUV. “And the weather's
gross. Are you sure you don't want to go do something
else?”
I shake my head and force a smile.
“I want to make it up to you, for standing in that long
line for bagels this morning,” I say.
“By making me stand in the cold more?” she asks.
I don't laugh, even though I should. “Yeah, I guess. But
this time, there's booze.” I waggle my eyebrows.
“You don't even really drink. And I can't drink because
I'm driving,” she says.
“Oh yeah. I guess that's true. But look—” I point across
the beach, grasping for anything that can save my not-verywell-thought-out plan. “Aren't those some of your friends?”
I stand beside her in my puffy black jacket, the
Gryffindor scarf twisted tightly around my neck, and I
watch Dante while Willow stands on tiptoe and tries to spot
her “high school friends” in the crowd. That's what she
calls them, and I can't imagine what that will be like—to
separate my friends based on where I met them. You were
my first friend. For a long time, you were my only friend.
But I don't want to think about that.
Dante's laughing and touching some senior girl on the
shoulder, and when my eyes fill with tears, I don't know if
it's about you or him. I roughly wipe my face before Willow
sees.
My sister's right about me not really being a drinker.
You know I've steered clear of the kegs and coolers for
most of high school. But something about your brother or
the weather or just being at a party without you makes me
want to grab a red cup.
So I walk straight toward the fire where the keg is and
pour myself a beer.
About twenty minutes later, I'm dizzy with relief or
pleasure or something. Willow's ready to leave, but I beg
her to stay a little longer. I'm starting to get a head rush,
the good kind that makes everything seem better, and I
know my cheeks will go ruddy soon if they haven't already.
If you were here, you would be teasing me about my “Asian
glow.”
So I ask my sister, “Am I glowing?” because that's what
you'd always say on the rare occasions when I did have a
drink—that I was glowing, like I was a firefly or a star.
Willow doesn't get it. (Or maybe she does.) She rolls her
eyes, and I laugh.
Willow runs into some guy she used to date and asks if
it's cool if she hangs out with him for a few. Since I'm giddy
with beer, I'm hoping he'll distract her from wanting to
leave, so of course I say, “Sure.” A few minutes later, I see
Faye climbing out of her car. Margo's sitting shotgun, and
Alexa's in the back. If I were sober, seeing them would
make me want to hide since things are still weird between
us. But since I'm not, I wave.
Faye sees me and waves back.
“Oh good. I was hoping you'd be here,” she says when
she walks over. I smile, and my mouth feels weird making
the shape.
Alexa looks buzzed already. Her hair is a little messy,
and her eyes are glassy and unfocused. Margo's sober, I
think, but she's always staring at her phone, so who knows.
“Hey, Autumn,” Alexa says. And Margo looks up,
surprised.
“Hi,” I say.
Faye looks at us. “I was telling them on the ride over
that I'm sick of this. You're our friend. Things are crappy,
and we shouldn't be splitting up. We should be, I don't
know, like constantly hugging or something.” She looks
over at Margo, who licks her lips and crosses her arms.
“What's your deal?” Faye asks Margo.
I think Faye forgets sometimes that she's the glue that
put us all together. That before her, it was you and me, and
Margo and Alexa. We were two separate sets of friends. I
don't know if Margo likes me in the specific ways that
friends are supposed to like one another. Her allegiance
lies with Alexa the way mine is always with you.
Margo goes, “I don't have a deal. I just want to be there
for Lex.”
“That's just it, though. You make it sound like Autumn's
the problem,” Alexa says. She kind of trips in the sand, and
I wonder how many drinks she had before she got to the
party. “It's not Autumn, not really.”
Alexa comes over to me and pulls me into a hug. We
both stumble a little as she does it.
“I'm sorry I've been weird lately, okay?” Her breath
smells like peppermint, so I know she's had a lot of
schnapps. I nod against her shoulder.
“Me too,” I say. “I miss you guys.” I feel my eyes
stinging with tears, and when I look at Faye, she smiles at
me and joins our hug. I look at Margo and wave her
forward with my free hand.
Faye says, “Margo, get over here!” And after a second,
she smiles a little and tucks her phone into her pocket.
Alexa pulls her into the center of our group hug so roughly
that all four of us almost tumble into the sand.
After that, even though you're still gone—I still don't
know where I fit without you, and we're all still sad—
everything feels a little better.
I have another cup of foamy beer with the girls, and we
talk about music. Alexa puts a fishtail braid into my hair,
and Margo shows me a couple of photos she took at the last
show they went to together. Faye pushes one of her
earbuds into my hand, but I pass it to Alexa instead of
listening myself. I don't know when I'll get back into that
scene. I can't imagine going to see a new band and
knowing you'll never get to hear another song.
A little while later, I start playing tug-of-war with one of
Perry's friends from the football team. He brought me
another drink and then started tugging at one end of my
scarf. It's starting to feel like a real party because the
music's been turned all the way up and the girls are
giggling and yelling things at us. “You can take him,
Autumn,” they shout, as if he and I were putting on a show
just for them, and it feels better than I want to admit to be
a part of the group again. The guy is trying to drag me
closer to the water, and I'm laughing hysterically and
resisting. He's laughing too, which makes me keep yanking,
but suddenly, his whole face changes.
He drops my scarf so fast that I fall backward into the
sand. He winces and mumbles, “Sorry, Autumn. I gotta go.
I'll, uh, see you at school or something.” It seems like he's
looking at someone just behind me as he walks away. When
I turn around, Dante's standing there, with his hands
stuffed into his pockets, and he looks pissed.
He reaches down to help me up, but I move away from
his hands, shake my head, and stay in the sand.
“It's better if we just don't. Don't you think?” I say,
thinking about him touching that other girl.
Your brother looks at me like I'm a stranger. But before
he can say anything, Perry materializes from somewhere.
I'd forgotten that this part of South Shore is basically his
backyard. He has to be buzzed if he's willingly coming over
to me and Dante after their fight. That fight is probably
why his friend dropped my scarf so quickly.
“Hey, dude, no hard feelings, right?” Perry says.
I look over at Dante. Your brother shrugs. Nods.
“Cool,” Perry says.
It's taken two weeks for Alexa and Margo to apologize
to me when I hadn't even done anything. Dante tried to kill
Perry, and they're just, like, I know you punched me a
bunch of times, but it's cool. Boys are so weird.
Perry looks down at me.
“Okay, A?” he asks.
I want to talk to him even less than I normally do, so I
nod too and pray that he'll just leave. I probably haven't
thought of you for more than an hour, but then he says your
name.
“Parties are more of Tavi's thing than yours, aren't
they?” he asks me, stooping so that we're face to face. And
there it is all over again: your name and the present tense.
The memory of you going to Alexa's party without me. And
now, Dante's face in the yard when he told me he didn't go
to the party with you because I didn't go. I look away from
Perry, knowing that if my face hasn't turned red from the
beer, it's probably flushing now from me trying so hard not
to cry. I puff out my cheeks and scan the beach for Willow. I
can't remember where we parked the car.
When I turn around, Dante's still standing there.
Seeing him is the end of any hope I had of holding it
together. The way I feel must be evident on my face
because Perry reaches out to me and says, “Hey, what's
wrong?”
He's wearing a stupid fitted baseball cap with the
sticker still on the bill, and it's barely propped on top of his
head. And just as I look up at him, a big gust of wind blows
it away. But he barely even flinches. He just keeps watching
me.
Crappy beach parties in winter would be better with
you here. Everything was better with you. And I can't talk
to Perry—I can't even look at him—without feeling like
you'd still be here if you'd never fallen in love with him.
When I start sobbing into my gritty hands a minute
later, both Dante and Perry try to help me up. Instead of
reaching out for either of them, I crawl away from your
brother and scream at your ex.
“She was coming to see you!” I shout to make Perry get
away from me. I don't say your name, the way he always
does, but I can tell by his face that he knows I mean you.
“She wanted to get back together!” is what I yell next.
“Autumn, don't,” Dante says. But I don't listen. We're
all at this stupid party as if everything is normal, so I might
as well tell the truth. Perry looks at me with something
close to hope in his eyes, and it just makes me angrier. I
don't want him to feel hopeful. I want him to hurt too.
“She wanted to get back together,” I say again, anger
seeping into my low voice. “And she died on her way here,
to your beach. To your house.”
I'm drunk, so I'm not even close to being done, but
Dante pulls me up out of the sand and brushes off my
clothes, like I'm a kid climbing out of a sandbox, even as I
try to pull away from him.
“Did you drive here?” he says to me.
I roll my eyes. “I'm not an idiot.”
Faye runs over and says, “She came with Willow.” Alexa
and Margo are still by the log where we were sitting
earlier, but they're watching us, too. I'd forgotten they
were even here, and their faces are full of some mix of
sadness and concern. Alexa looks like she might cry, and it
just makes me angrier.
I'm stumbling, and still kind of sobbing, and by then,
other people start to notice. Dante picks me up and throws
me over his shoulder when I won't start walking on my
own, and I hit his back, but he won't put me down. As he
carts me away, I look back at Perry one last time. In a voice
that sounds nothing like my own I screech, “She's dead
because of you!”
Dante finds Willow. He puts me down right in front of
her and says, “I think you should get her out of here.” His
jaw is working hard, and my hands are shaking like crazy.
I'm crying so hard that I can't even say what I want to
say to him. But I look behind him, at the girl he'd been
flirting with, and I choke out a “Her?”
He must understand, even though I'm coughing and
crying and sniffing. I'm sure my face is covered in sand,
and I probably look terrible. But Dante just frowns at me,
and I don't know what his frown means. When Willow sees
the state I'm in, I don't have a chance to figure it out.
Before, it was like I was drowning. The water looked
smooth, but I was thrashing around under the waves,
struggling to breathe. Now I've broken the surface, and
people can see me. But I'm too far away from the shore to
be rescued.
I curl into a ball in the backseat while Willow drives us
home. She sneaks me up to the bathroom, and I shower
until my whole body is pink with heat and my head is a
little clearer. I let her tuck me in.
I wake up in the middle of the night, in my room, alone.
I roll over and grab my phone, and before I start writing an
email to you, I press my earbuds into my ears and play the
only screamy song UL ever recorded.
I feel so angry that it's scaring me.
BRAM IS BORED so he sniffs a kitten (even though he's
allergic).
5,523 views | 6 months ago
Yara and I have talked and texted almost every day since
Ms. Lassiter's birthday. She seems to feel as guilty as I do
about Bram, and I can't hate her, knowing that's true. I
walk down the halls at school, and it feels strange to see
people and want to talk to them. I'm no good at having
friends, but I guess I'm trying.
“Hey, Yara,” I say. I walk over to her, and Paige is there
too, so I wave. Yara slaps my arm and says, “Oh my god, I
thought you were skipping or something. Where have you
been all day?”
I shrug. I was hiding out in the nurse's office because
they reopened the gym. Until today, the doors had been
crisscrossed with caution tape since the gym leads to the
locker rooms—the scene of Bram's suicide. I had phys ed
fourth period, and there was just no way I was stepping
foot in there. So I immediately claimed I had a killer
migraine. The nurse's office was pretty comfortable, so I
just stayed in there till fifth. I have a feeling I'll come down
with a headache every time phys ed shows up on my
schedule for the rest of the year.
“The gym opening back up is super depressing, right?”
Yara asks.
“You could say that,” I agree.
“I know,” Paige says. She smacks her lips together.
“We're going shopping after school. Retail therapy. Wanna
come?”
“He can't,” Yara chimes in. “He has to go into the city
for actual therapy today. Right?” She looks back at me to
confirm.
I nod, trying to remember when I told Yara my therapy
schedule. Paige knocks her hip into mine before the three
of us start down the hall together. Yara grabs my hand. If
she touches you once, the girl doesn't stop.
“Maybe we can just get ice cream real quick?” Yara
says. “Since you can't shop.”
“It's twenty fucking degrees out,” I mumble.
“So what?” she says.
“It's ice cream,” Paige agrees.
My phone rings as Paige impersonates me. “ ‘It's
twenty fucking degrees,' ” she mutters, and Yara laughs.
When I pull it out and look to see which one of my parents
is calling (because they're the only people who ever call
me), it isn't either. It's Nico.
I've been trying to figure out what to do about him. I've
been texting him about music stuff, like everything's cool
between us, even though whenever I see him at school I
want to kick his ass. Still, I'm surprised to see him calling
me. I know I need to talk to him about Bram again, but I've
been putting it off.
Now he's on the phone, and I can't exactly ignore that.
I untangle my fingers from Yara's, and I tell both girls I'll
be right back.
“Nico?” I ask as soon as I'm alone, and he laughs. The
TV is on way too loud in the background, and I'm just about
to tell him to turn it down when he does.
“Hey,” he says, like we call each other on the phone all
the time or something.
“Uh, hi?”
He laughs again, and then I hear slurping and the
unmistakable sound of ice hitting glass. Nico's pulling
desperately at the last bit of a drink.
“You wanna come over?” he asks me, and his words are
slurred. It's the middle of the day, Nico's drunk, and he's
inviting me over, like it's not a Tuesday, like he shouldn't be
at school right now.
I'm already in trouble for skipping classes, so I hesitate
for a minute, but only for a minute. Because even though
things are a little better at school, I still can't stop thinking
about Bram. I need to find out what was going on between
the two of them, because I know from Yara that he lied to
me. And I haven't forgotten that Bram was beat to hell
when he was found. I want to know the truth about that
night, and drunk people tell the truth. Nico lied to me once
already. I know he knows more than he's saying.
“Sure, I'll come over,” I say. “Send me your address.”
Nico hangs up hard and fast, like he has another call or
somewhere else he has to be. I shoot Yara a text and tell
her something came up so no ice cream for me, and Nico's
text arrives with his address a minute later. As I exit the
building, I wonder why I didn't just leave school the second
I saw the open doors to the gym.
When I get to Nico's, he wrestles me into a headlock
and laughs at how my hair is sticking up all over the place
when he's done. I have to try really hard not to hit him the
second he backs off, because he's always fucking annoying,
but it's harder to let it slide, now that I know he's also a
liar. He pours an inch of whiskey for me into a short waterstained glass and says his dad won't miss the booze. I mix it
with a warm Cherry Coke that I pull from my backpack.
“Cheers to us changing clothes where a kid fucking
died,” Nico says, lifting his glass. I guess he was at school
this morning, and he had the balls to do what I didn't—
leave. He's smiling, but his eyes are a little glassy, and he's
wasted, so the gym being reopened is obviously a big deal
to him. I wasn't expecting him to be so emotional. It turns
my anger with him down to a simmer. “It's pretty messed
up, don't you think?”
I nod and take a sip of my drink, trying not to think
about how disappointed Gertrude would be. I silently
convince myself she'd be cool with me drinking,
considering the gym drama.
“I hid in the nurse's office all afternoon,” I tell him.
Nico thinks that's hilarious.
I try to find my footing in this room, in this relationship.
Is Nico—the guy who kissed my ex, the guy who introduced
him to drugs—a drummer, a dealer, a liar, or my friend? Or
is he somehow all of those things at once?
Nico stands up and stumbles a little as he walks over to
a record player in a far corner of the apartment. He pulls
out a record from his parents' pretty extensive collection
and presses it into the player with more care than I've ever
seen him use with anything else.
When the music starts, it's a song I love and one that
demands all your senses. I close my eyes for the first few
bars. When I open them, Nico is holding out his hand. “May
I have this dance, Logo?” he asks with a grin.
I swallow what's left in my glass and then oblige
because I hope dancing will be a way to open him up, to
ease into asking him more about Bram. I was pissed when I
got here, but it's funny how quickly booze can make bad
feelings float away.
We start out with just our fingers intertwined. And
almost immediately, Nico twirls me. Neither of us knows
what the hell we're doing, but it's kind of fun, anyway. I
laugh when he pulls me close after the spin. We both hum
and keep swaying to the music. Even though I'm shit at
keeping friends, I'm bad at being alone, too. So it's so nice
to be close to someone and not want something more, and
to know he doesn't want anything from me, either.
“You miss him?” I ask Nico. And as much as I'm asking
him to get to the truth about him and Bram, part of me
honestly wants to know.
He nods and sniffs. I can't see his face, but shit, he
must be crying.
“I thought he was just your dealer,” I say because
people don't cry when their drug dealer dies. Almost
immediately, Nico's body stiffens.
He looks up at me with his wet too-blue eyes.
“I never said he was just my dealer.”
The song ends, and we back away from each other.
Whatever bubble we were in thanks to the music has burst.
“I invited you over here because I wanted to talk to
someone who understood,” Nico says, as if I'm betraying
him.
“So talk,” I say, like a dick. Because fuck him for
making me feel bad when he's the one who lied. Whatever
softness I'd felt for him a few seconds ago is gone. Funny
how booze can make good feelings disappear, too. “But how
about this time, you lie a little less.”
Nico is normally all jokes and laughter; roughhousing
and rough hugs. But now he sits on the floor. He looks
different—older or something—when he looks up at me.
“What does that mean?”
“I know you were Bram's dealer, Nico. Not the other
way around. Yara told me.”
He shakes his head, like I'm wrong, and I'm gearing up
to argue with him when tears start falling from his eyes.
Seeing that shuts me all the way up.
“I didn't lie,” he says, “But I also didn't tell you
everything.” He traces a circle on the floor beside him. “So
here it is: I do deal. But Bram? He was dealing too. Yara
just didn't know. She assumed when she saw him with me
that he was buying. But that wasn't the way it was going
down. He told me he needed to make some extra money, so
I hooked him up.”
I shut up and walk over to the whiskey, which is still on
the coffee table. I don't mix it with Coke this time—I just
swallow it straight, and when my chest burns, I feel like I
deserve it. Nico might have lied to me before, but I know
he's not lying now because Ms. Lassiter told me they were
broke and that Bram was trying to fix things the way he
always did.
“The party over Thanksgiving weekend was only, like,
the third time I'd hooked him up with a supply, but he was
burning through everything so fast. I was mostly selling at
shows, and he did house parties since he got invited to
most of them, anyway. He was worried what he was doing
would get back to Coach, so he'd organize these drops and
then text people to pick up their shit and leave their money
instead of doing hand-to-hand exchanges. He asked me to
help him set up a drop at that party. That's what we were
doing when he kissed me. He thought someone was coming
into the room, and he wanted to cover it up. Then he kind
of…kept kissing me. Said I gave him a rush.”
That sounds like the truth too—like something Bram
would definitely do. I could see him getting a taste of
someone (Nico), or something (the drugs, the money), and
deciding that he liked them regardless of the
consequences.
Nico keeps talking. “We made that video for fun the
second or third time we hooked up. I didn't plan to do
anything with it, but then he broke things off with me out of
nowhere. Said he couldn't sell anymore and that he didn't
want to hook up anymore, either.”
“Wait. What video?” I say. But it's like Nico doesn't hear
me.
“God, I was so pissed. He came over here, and we got
into this huge fight. But I tried to tell him—”
“Wait, Nico,” I say, my voice dropping. “You're the guy
in the sex tape?”
Nico's drunk, so he looks up, clearly confused. He
wipes away the tears that are left in his eyes and says,
“Duh. Everyone knows that.”
“Um, I didn't.”
“Oh, well. Yeah.”
“And you uploaded it?”
Nico nods. “I did it to get a reaction out of him, but he
kept totally ignoring me for, like, weeks after. I think he
was trying to work it out with Yara. Whatever. When he
finally showed up, I guess he'd been thinking about it for so
long that he wasn't even mad I'd uploaded it anymore. I
think he actually felt bad.”
“Jesus,” I say. “When did that happen?”
“That's the screwed-up thing,” Nico says. “We fought
the night he died, and fuck, dude.” He looks around for his
glass, and when he finds it, he downs the remains like it's
water. “It messed me up.”
The news report said Bram was so badly beaten, they
thought that was how he died at first. I'd dreamed that I
was the one who'd beaten up Bram, and I'd just danced
with the guy who actually did.
“So, what? You beat the shit out of him in that locker
room and left him for dead?”
Nico blinks a few times, then furrows his brow and
looks at me as if I've just spoken to him in another
language.
“What?” he says. “Do I look like I would win in a fight
with Bram Lassiter?”
I look at him a little closer, at his skinny arms and legs.
And damn, he's right. I run my hand through my hair. “So
what the hell happened?”
“Ugh. Look, I'll tell you what I told the police, okay? He
texted me to say he wanted to talk. It had been about three
weeks since I uploaded the video, and as far as I was
concerned there was nothing left to say. He was still with
Yara, and I'd already gotten him back for dropping me like I
was nothing.”
Nico pours himself more whiskey, as if he needs it to
get through this. I want another drink, too, but I feel like I
can't ask for the bottle right now.
“But he shows up, and he's all, ‘Let me fix this. I still
want to be friends.' He kept saying that. And I just said,
‘Dude, you can't. Too late. Go make out with Yara.'
Whatever. I was pissed. He came toward me, like he
wanted to hug or kiss me or something, and I don't know. I
lost it.”
Nico looks toward the stairs, and I know how that feels,
to be back at a time and place in your head and for it to be
so real, like it's happening all over again.
“We were in the hall, right up there. I just wanted him
to leave, so I was telling him to, but he kept coming toward
me.” Nico starts crying again. “I shoved him, just to keep
space between us. And he slipped on a pair of my fucking
drumsticks, which I'd left on the floor like an idiot. He fell
down about half the stairs. He was all banged up, busted
lip, probably broken ribs and who knows what else, but
then he started crying and saying this stuff about how his
life was shit and he didn't deserve to live. And then, I was
the one apologizing, but he wouldn't stay. He wouldn't let
me take him to the hospital to get checked out or
anything.”
I sit on the floor across from Nico, not sure what I'm
feeling. I thought I knew what happened to Bram, but it
seems like the more I find out, the deeper the rabbit hole
goes.
“I found out he was dead the next day. And look, I know
you guys dated for forever, but you hadn't talked to him in
months,” he said. “He's been into a lot of different drugs
for a while. Recreational and prescription stuff. He was
pretty depressed,” Nico says, and smiles sadistically at his
feet. “It was why we got along so well.”
I realize Nico and I…We're the same. We got hurt by
Bram, so we did something to hurt him back: Nico with the
video. Me with my last words.
I'm not expecting him to say anything else, but Nico
speaks up again a minute later.
“We were only hooking up for a month, but I think I
was starting to love him.”
“You weren't the only one he had that effect on.”
I get up and grab the whiskey bottle. It travels from my
hands to his and back again, as if we're preschoolers
sharing blocks. We don't have Bram, and we can't have his
forgiveness, but at least, right now, we have each other.
The same dark regret is hanging over both of us; a storm
cloud we can't outrun. So, to lighten the mood, I say, “This
is going to sound random as hell. But have you ever
thought about joining a band?”
—
When I get to Gertrude's office, I say, “Trudy, you're not
going to believe this shit.”
I start with the trip to Ms. Lassiter's on her birthday. I
tell her I've been tracking down the truth about how Bram
had changed and what really happened the night he died. I
mention making friends with Yara and reconnecting with
Nico. But I still don't tell her what I said to him the day we
broke up. She might think I'm a fuck-up; an angry, griefstricken kid. But she doesn't know I'm a straight-up asshole
who wished for someone's death. I'm not ready for
Gertrude to see me the way I already see myself.
I thought she'd be into my story—especially the parts
where we danced at Ms. Lassiter's and when I confirm that
I've been trying to cut back on my drinking—but even
though she nods as I talk, and writes in her little notebook,
something about her seems uncomfortable.
“I'm glad you spoke to Ms. Lassiter again. And I'm glad
you're reaching out to some of your old friends. It's great
that you and Yara have made a connection, and it's
honestly not something I was expecting when you wouldn't
even say her name during our first session. But, Logan…
you haven't exactly been doing the work we talked about,”
Gertrude says. “You know that, right?”
I look at her. Then I look out the window. What the hell
does she want from me?
“I'm talking to all these people I never wanted to talk
to,” I say to her, and she nods, agreeing with me. “People
who were close to Bram, like you said.”
“But I wonder if you're talking to them for the right
reasons. What was your intent when you went to Ms.
Lassiter's for her birthday? Were you there to try to be
open with someone who was close to Bram, or were you…I
don't know, investigating? Were you using your head or
your heart?”
So maybe she does already know that I'm an asshole. I
don't answer her questions, so she tries a different angle.
“It sounds like Bram and his mom were both having a
really hard time,” she says.
I shrug, and Gertrude shifts in her seat.
“And what about your boyfriend? I don't think you ever
told me his name.”
I had been staring at my shoes, but I look up at that.
She's talking about Aden.
“He's not my boyfriend,” I say.
“Oh. I'm so sorry. I thought you hung out with him all
the time and that you were starting a band together?” She
flips back in her notebook. “From the way you spoke about
him, it seemed like you two were…close.”
“Well, yeah,” I say. “I guess. But he's not my boyfriend.”
“Okay, my mistake. So, have you spoken to him about
how you're feeling? About what you've been going through
the past few weeks?”
“You want me to tell a guy I met a month ago that my
ex-boyfriend is dead and that I'm all fucked up about it?”
Gertrude looks at me for a beat too long.
“Is he your friend?”
I shrug again. “I guess.”
“Is there a reason why you don't want to be honest with
him?”
“Secrets are safer,” I say.
Gertrude takes her glasses off, like by having blurrier
vision, she can see the real me more clearly.
“You seem to have some guilt over Bram's death. And I
don't know exactly why that is. Maybe you don't either. But
I think reaching out—speaking to other people who loved
him, as you've been doing a bit, but also speaking to people
who love you—can only help you process this loss. You're
allowed to be upset.”
I must shake my head because Gertrude says, “Yes, you
are. Give yourself the space to feel whatever you need to
feel.”
I don't say anything else to Gertrude, but I'm a little
worried. I may have become too used to the pain to feel it.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…SWEET SUITE
SUIT
Looks like: The Beatles…at a gala? Idk. They're so damn
well-dressed.
Smells like: clean laundry
Sounds like: an eargasm
Feels like: a warm towel when you take it fresh from the
dryer. If you don't know what that means, I guess you'll
have to listen. And if you do know what that means, you'll
be dying to listen.
4/5
“My name is Shay,” I say. “And my sister, her name was
Sasha.”
Dante is sitting right beside me. We're in a rec-center
community room, and we're surrounded by much older
strangers. Turns out most twinless twins are older than
sixteen. But everyone's been really nice to me so far.
When I first asked Dante to come to this support group
with me, I thought for sure he'd say no. But when I called
him after we'd been texting about sisters and what it was
like to lose one, he said, “I punched my sister's exboyfriend in the face, just because he was talking to
Autumn. So it might be good for me too.”
“This is my first time,” I say, “so I'll keep it kind of
short.”
There's a woman with curly black hair, a guy with
watery brown eyes, Dante, and twelve other strangers who
have lost their twins.
“My sister, Sasha…She died in November of last year
from leukemia. She'd had it since we were ten, and…even
though I'd known she could die from it for five years, I've
been having a tough time. Panic attacks and stuff like that.
So my friends wanted me to talk about it—about her—with
them. And I did, a little. But then my mom…she told me
about this.”
I look around at them all. I look down at Dante.
“This is my friend. He lost his sister really recently, and
talking to him made me feel a lot better because I felt like
he understood even more than my other friends. So I guess
I thought coming here would be a good next step.”
The chairs were arranged in a circle, so I can see
everyone at once. And they're all nodding and smiling.
Some of them have tears in their eyes, but there's
something I feel from being in this room—a kind of gut
understanding. Losing a twin is like losing a leg—you forget
how to stand on your own because you never needed to.
Everyone in this room is missing a piece of themselves in
the same unbearable, unexplainable way that I am.
When some of the others stand to tell their stories and
talk about their twins, they all say versions of that—the
impossible loss I've been trying my hardest not to feel—like
half of them is gone, like no one gets it, like their friends
and family can't stand to see them because they look so
much like the person who died.
We cry when the curly-haired lady talks about her sister
having a heart attack out of nowhere, and how she's now
on medication for anxiety because she's constantly terrified
she's going to have one and die too. We cry when the tall
guy with watery brown eyes tells us how his brother was
stabbed in a bar fight and how the guy who stabbed him
was just released from jail early.
I don't expect Dante to say anything, but he stands up
near the end of the meeting.
“I'm Dante. I'm not a twin, but my sister looked a lot
like me, and we weren't even a year apart. Irish twins,
some of our older relatives called us. I know it's not the
same, but…”
We all nod. We all get it. There's no way to measure
grief; to know if mine is bigger than his. Dante probably
spent way more time with Tavia than I spent with Sasha,
just because she was sick for so long. I cry hardest when
Dante says that he had been planning to drive Tavia to the
party, but that he changed his mind to hang out with a girl
and how that choice haunts him.
We tell him it isn't his fault; it isn't anyone's fault.
I bump his shoulder when he sits back down, and he
almost smiles. But there are tears in his eyes too.
“The universe is unpredictable,” the guy leading the
group says right before we leave. He makes a globe with
his hands, by touching his fingertips together.
“As much as we might think that our twins' fates reveal
something about our own, the world is too random for
things to be that simple. And as much as we want to think
we're at fault or that we're in control, we aren't.”
When we walk out of the rec center, the Band Wagon is
parked right by the door; Rohan promised to pick me up.
Dante and I walk over to the van together.
Rohan rolls down his window and sticks his hand out to
greet Dante.
“It was really cool of you to go with her,” he says. They
do a boy-hug through the window; clasped hands, hard pats
on the back.
Dante shrugs. “I'll do anything to get out of my house,
so I'm glad she invited me.” He points to the side of the
van. “Still, huh?” he asks, and the name of their band
almost glows in the darkness.
Ro nods and kind of laughs. “My current band is so
pissed that I won't paint over it.”
“You never told me that,” I say.
“Oh, yeah,” he says. “Pooja's been threatening to leave
Our Numbered Days if I don't paint over it by the summer.”
After what happened at Battle of the Bands, Rohan,
Dante, and Logan started fighting constantly. The grand
prize from the competition was studio time and the
possibility of recording a full-length album. So I called
everyone I knew to try to get them into a studio, hoping it
would save them. But even once I secured them a few free
studio hours and a few more at a discount, they couldn't
get along enough to record.
Then Sasha started getting sicker, and Rohan went a
little AWOL from the band because he refused to leave her
side. Dante stopped caring since Rohan wasn't around, and
Logan hadn't written anything new in a while. They never
recovered, and I wonder if he keeps the band name there to
hold on to what they might have been.
Dante turns and looks back at the building. “It was
weird,” he says, “just imagining doubles of all those people.
But it was good. Let me know the next time you want to
go.”
On the drive home, I tell Rohan about the group, and
then, once I'm home, I tell Mom, who's already at the table
with takeout when I arrive.
“You were right,” I say. “It helped.”
—
The next day, I call the first BAMF staff meeting in months.
Deedee shows up with chips, soda, candy, and ice cream.
Callie comes with a list of all the BAMF things she's been
wanting to talk to me about, and a content calendar.
“The archive link is broken,” Callie says. She makes a
check mark on her list of concerns.
“I think that's something that we need to fix ASAP
because we get tons of traffic through people hearing about
a band and then coming to search the archive.”
“That makes sense,” I say. I write “archive link” down
in my notebook and bite into a gummy worm. It stretches
out and bounces back up to my lips as I turn back to Callie.
“What's next?”
“You haven't uploaded any of the pictures from the
Sunscream show yet,” Callie says.
“I was going to do it,” Deedee pipes up. “But I know
there's a format you like, and I didn't want it to look weird
next to the other posts.”
“It's okay,” I say. “I've been slacking. I know I have, but
that's the point of this meeting, right? To get back on
schedule with everything.” I write down “upload sunscream
photos” and “teach Deedee how to format photos.”
“What else?”
Callie and Deedee look at each other. Deedee gets a
little misty-eyed.
“Album reviews,” they both say.
“We can discontinue them,” Deedee offers right away.
“But I don't think that would be smart,” Callie says.
“From a business standpoint. I mean…People quote Sasha's
reviews. And I know you've been reposting them when it
made sense to, and that she had a bunch we hadn't posted
yet, but we're going to need new content really soon. Sasha
didn't review every band in the world. And, like, I know Our
Numbered Days doesn't have an album yet, but they have a
ton of listens on the songs they have available to stream.
Don't you think we should have something posted about
them besides that one photo?”
Deedee nods. “It's Ro,” she says, like I don't know that
already.
I bite the insides of my cheeks. They're right, but I'm
not ready to recruit some new random person to do this.
Whoever follows in Sasha's footsteps has to love music as
much as she did. And they have to have a voice that fits the
tone of BAMF.
“Let me think about that one, okay?”
Callie starts to say something else, but Deedee noisily
opens a bag of chips and asks if either of us want any.
They hang out for a while after we finish the official
BAMF business. I put on an episode of Intervention to play
in the background while Deedee tells us about Olive.
I fix the archive link. I post a couple of photos of Olive,
because she's mostly who Deedee took photos of during
Sunscream's performance. I look through all of Sasha's
most recent reviews, and when I think about her not ever
writing another one, the panic bubbles up in me again. I
look at my friends, who are riveted by the actual
intervention part of the show and not paying much
attention to me, and I try to control my breathing by
myself. I think about Mom placing my hand on her throat,
where I could feel the air moving in and out of her, and I
place my hand on my own chest.
Instead of running out of the room, I stay in my seat. I
breathe slowly, thinking about Jerome next. There's
something comforting about his soft voice; his too-big
sweaters and shiny gold rings. I think I do want more with
him. Maybe.
I focus on all the other people I love; on all the beauty
that remains. I'm grateful that I still have so much left,
even though Sasha's gone. Thoughts of loud, beautiful
music; banana splits; Mom and Rohan; and Callie and
Deedee help me fight my way back to calm. It doesn't work
completely, but it also isn't totally useless. My breathing
evens out. The hot, bad butterflies go away. I touch my
Sasha tattoo until I feel brave enough to pick up my phone.
I text Jerome, Can we meet after school on Monday?
He texts back, Yep.
I text him again. No kissing! Just talking.
When he doesn't answer right away, I get a little
nervous. But then the bubbles that tell me that he's typing
pop up, and all I can do is wait. They appear and disappear,
and he doesn't text back, and I start freaking out.
“I told Jerome I wanted to talk and not kiss, and he's
not texting me back,” I say kind of frantically to Callie and
Deedee.
Callie rolls her eyes, but Deedee reaches for my phone
and reads our exchange. She looks like she's thinking for a
second, but then she grins.
“He just texted,” she says. She hands the phone back to
me.
Cool.
FEB. 1, 1:25 P.M.
I wish you had shown me how to do fishtail braids.
You did teach me how to do a handstand, and every time I
flip my body over, blood rushes to my head along with
images of how we balanced on opposite walls and
laughed until our faces turned purple.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Feb. 2, 7:23 a.m.
Subject: <none>
Lately, it takes almost an hour for me to get home from
school because I can't drive past the overpass where it
happened. Someone posted a picture of the street a few
days ago, so I know that the shattered glass is gone, but
they haven't repaired the guardrail yet. I also know that
the street is littered with teddy bears and balloons, flowers
and letters, photographs and candles. And I'm not ready
for that either. Even thinking about it makes it hard for me
to see straight.
It also doesn't help that I kind of lose it every time I have to
get on any kind of highway—or any street, really—with
more than two lanes. I have to pull over or call Willow or
type out a desperate message to you to calm down
enough to start driving again because I feel so out of
control.
So I take the long way home because it helps me to stay
calm. I put on some good music, and I just settle in, taking
back roads that zigzag through the town next to ours,
making almost a complete circle, stretching the trip from
ten minutes to almost fifty. I realize this isn't normal. But
nothing has felt normal for a while.
When I get home at my new normal time today, a cop
cruiser is in my driveway, and Dante's pacing in front of his
car, yanking at his hair.
My heart stops when I see him and the cops. I run
toward Dante instead of the house, certain something else
horrible has befallen someone I love, and afraid to face
whatever truth might be inside alone.
“What happened?” I shout before I even reach his car,
my hands already shaking. I'm thinking of Willow, who
always takes the kinds of chances I won't; of my mom, who
drives more than an hour to work every day; of my dad,
who got off early today and should be home by now, but I
don't see his car. I can't stop thinking that someone else
might be dead.
But when Dante sees me sprinting toward him, he
doesn't answer. He kicks his front tire and won't look at
me. He leans his head against the roof of his car and starts
cursing under his breath. At first I think that he doesn't
want to have to tell me some new, awful truth.
So I take a deep breath and start to walk past him up
the driveway toward the house. He reaches out and takes
my hand, though. He pulls me to him, but still, he stays
silent.
“God, Dante,” I say. “What is it? Just tell me. I can take
it.”
But he doesn't say anything. He stares at me. And when
I say he stares, I mean he looks at my face, then his eyes
travel down to my elbows and my forearms and my wrists,
my thighs and my knees and my ankles.
His eyes change, onyx melting into molasses, and he
touches my shoulders and hair and face with the tips of his
fingers, like he's making sure all of me is there.
“I thought…We thought…”
He takes a breath without looking away from my eyes.
He steadies himself and starts again.
“You left school so long ago. I saw you leave. Your dad
called me when you didn't answer your phone. And I told
him when you left. We…couldn't figure out why you weren't
back, and you weren't picking up our calls or answering
any of my texts.”
And then I understood.
I haven't told anyone except Willow about my new
route home, and with her back at school, no one else had
any idea. Not even Dante.
My parents couldn't tell themselves that I was fine—
those buttons inside their brains are broken now because
of what happened to you. The nightmare has already come
true once, so they know the worst-case scenario can turn
out to be real. Your death gave us all an unshakable faith in
that, if nothing else.
Dante swallows slowly as I pull out my dead cell phone.
“The battery died,” I tell him.
He shakes his head. “Dammit, Autumn.”
He doesn't hug me. But something about his face
makes me feel like he has. Then he blinks once and holds
his eyes closed for a little too long, like he's making a hard
decision.
He leans forward and puts his hand on my cheek. We've
touched so much since you left us, but never like that. I
stiffen because I'm surprised, not because I don't like it.
He asks me if it's okay, for him to touch me like this; for
him to touch me the way he had started to the night you
died.
Slowly, I nod.
“I hope this is, too,” he whispers, and squints his eyes,
like I'm the sun.
He only kisses me, but it feels like something else is
happening. I'm instantly more grounded and less broken.
At once, I feel less empty and more real.
It's only a kiss, but somehow it makes me newly aware
of every part of my whole body. Dante's kiss makes me
realize, without a doubt, that I'm alive.
But noticing so suddenly the rhythm of my own
heartbeat, my own breath—and his—has its consequences.
It makes me remember that everything about you has
stopped completely, even though everyone you left behind
is still going strong.
When he pulls away, he doesn't look sheepish the way
every other boy would after a first kiss. He isn't looking
down, or grinning, like he's nervous. He doesn't kiss me
again. He just looks pleased; like he had finally confirmed
something he'd always known was right. His eyebrows are
even, and he's standing so still. He almost looks…proud.
I start crying then, blinking too fast and shaking my
head.
“I can't drive by where it happened. I have to go all the
way around. I should have told you,” I say. “I should have
charged my phone.”
He just nods.
I wipe my face with my jacket sleeve and let out an
unnatural laugh. “I'm so sorry,” I say, and I can tell he
knows I mean I'm sorry for everything: our fight in the
yard, the scene at the beach, today.
He chews his bottom lip and nods again, but he looks at
me, like he can't believe I'm real. I kind of can't believe he
is, either. I go up on my tiptoes, grab the back of his neck,
and kiss him again, because whatever is happening
between us feels like the only thing I'm sure of.
My dad must have looked through the window because
a minute later, he runs from the house. He grabs me
roughly and pulls me to him. He starts to yell at me, and
you know my dad almost never yells, but then I think he
sees my chin trembling.
“I thought you were with him, not answering your
phone on purpose.” He shoots a look over my head at
Dante. “I almost had a brawl with him, right here in the
driveway,” he whispers into my ear.
We all start up toward the house together. My dad's
arm is draped around me, but I reach out for Dante without
looking back at him. He grabs my hand, squeezes, and
doesn't let go.
Once my dad calms down and sends the cops away, I
call my mom to let her know I made it home too. Then I
walk Dante back out to his car. We kiss again, slower this
time. Less like our lives depend on it and more like it's a
choice we're making together.
When I pull away and look up at him, his black eyes are
filled with tears and all the words I know he won't say. He
tucks a thin strand of hair behind my ear with his stillbruised fingers before he gets into his car and drives away.
Inside, I finish up the sketch I'd started of him. I can
see him so clearly that I don't need him here to know the
shape of his dark eyes, the slope of his long nose.
Then I close my eyes tightly for a long minute, open
them, and start a portrait of you.
BRAM IS BORED so he tries to knit a blanket.
3,810 views | 7 months ago
“I'm a genius,” I say as I walk into the basement of Aden's
dorm. Aden texted and said we could practice down here
and that no one would mind. When we walk in, he looks up
from where he's sitting tuning his guitar, and grins.
Nico is right behind me, and this is the first time all
three of us have been in a room together, though we've
been texting all week. Nico and I came up with the perfect
band name on the ride over, but Aden has to sign off on it.
“More like we're both geniuses, wouldn't you say,
Logo?” Nico says, and then he extends his hand in Aden's
direction. “Hey, I'm Nico.”
Aden's grin widens. “Yeah, I kinda figured.” He stands
up and crosses the room, grabs Nico's hand, and claps him
on the back. “Damn good to meet you. Been watching your
videos. Your drum skills are sick.”
“Thanks, dude!”
“How long have you been—”
“Enough getting to know each other. You guys can
make out later if you want to.” I realize as I'm saying it that
the statement doesn't have as much bite as I planned it to,
for one very specific reason. It must hit Nico and Aden at
the same time because they both start laughing: our band
is made up of three gay guys. I get even more excited than
I was a second earlier because, holy shit, that's awesome.
“What do you think of calling the band Undying Light?”
I say to Aden. I'm a little bit buzzed, but I don't think they
can tell. I was just so nervous about us all being together
for the first time. We're so good on paper that I'm terrified
we're not going to have that magic—whatever magic it is
that makes bands work—and I fucking need us to. I need it
like air. So I just had a little to take the edge off.
“Love it,” Aden says, barely even hesitating. “It's
perfect.”
“Told you,” Nico says to me, grinning.
“Fuck yeah,” I say. “Let's play some music.”
We start by practicing a bunch of covers, classic songs
that we, and everyone, knows. I throw out a line or two,
and Aden picks it up right away. He starts strumming, and
it's like magic—that magic—the way my voice mixes with
the notes he plays. And then Nico comes in out of nowhere
and fills in Aden's melodies with some crazy-complicated
rhythms that seem to be made for the songs some of our
favorite artists wrote years ago. We sound damn good
together.
Next we play some more up-to-date tracks—singles that
could be on the radio or MTV right now if we tuned in.
These work too, and even when we have to stop for me to
figure out what key to sing in or for Aden to grab a clamp
or for Nico to decide what rhythm fits best, we still fall
back into sync quickly.
I've missed this. Feeling the heady vibration of bass in
my chest. And even without the heat of the lights on my
face and the ecstasy of a fifty or a hundred strangers
screaming words I wrote from memory, I suddenly
remember that the stage was the one place where I felt
powerful. Once I knew without a doubt that I was gay, I
also knew there wouldn't be many places where I could feel
like that: like I could do anything.
Bram was right to love that shitty Vonnegut quote.
Everything is so fucking beautiful, and absolutely nothing
hurts. If you don't let it. And with music coursing through
me like the very blood in my veins, I take Gertrude's
advice, and I let myself feel it all.
When we're about five songs in, Aden starts strumming
out a melody that I recognize right away as an Unraveling
Lovely song, and everything in me that was full of light
turns stormy. I spin to look at him, and over the music, he
shouts, “We're doing tributes to our favorite bands, right?”
He's flirting, but now is not the time.
Nico's into it too. He says “Hell yes” and hops onboard,
kicking it up a notch with quick snaps from his snare and
big booms from his bass drum. And I feel like I'm back in
Rohan's garage or worse—back at fucking Battle of the
Bands, and Dante is pissed at me for missing his cue and
Ro is desperately mouthing back to me the first line of a
song I wrote.
Nico and Aden…They don't know that this song is about
Bram. That almost every song I wrote for the Unraveling
Lovely EP is about him. They don't know that I wanted to
call this band Undying Light because Bram is like a flame
inside my belly that won't go out. They don't know that I
pounded three beers before I got into Nico's car and that I
chewed gum to cover the boozy smell. So they don't know
that these few bars of music are crushing my heart, like it's
in a garlic press.
“Cut it out,” I say, but they don't hear me because
they're playing so loud. I say it again a little louder. “Guys,
cut it the fuck out.” They keep playing, and I am not okay.
I'm the least okay that I've been in a while. I don't want to
still feel like this; I thought I was done feeling like this. I
don't want them playing a song that belongs to me, Rohan,
and Dante. That song being played live reminds me too
much of all that I've lost. I kick the mike stand, and it slides
across the floor. They finally stop playing.
“Jesus, L. What was that about?” Aden is walking over
to me, and puts his hand on my shoulder. I'm so pissed, but
apparently, I'm gassy, too. Before I can tell him to get the
hell away from me I burp, and it tastes just like beer. I
know it smells like beer, too. Aden gets a faceful.
“Whoa,” he says. He backs away, rights the mike stand,
and picks up the mike from where it rolled across the floor.
He looks at me, then back at Nico. “We'll be right back,” he
says.
Aden takes my hand and pulls me away from Nico,
toward the door that leads outside. The sky is the perfect
ombre shade of twilight blue, but my nails are cobalt like
Nico's eyes. The city seems quiet for once, as if it knows I
can use a little bit of peace.
“Are you drunk?” Aden asks as soon as the door closes.
“Huh?” I say to him.
“L, it's our first rehearsal,” he says. His voice is soft,
the way it always is, and he sounds like he's talking to
someone he loves. But that someone shouldn't be me. “Why
are you messed up? What's going on?”
I don't want to talk about it. I just want to keep
jamming out, feeling the music inside me. I want
everything to be beautiful. I don't want to deal with what
hurts.
“Can we talk about this later?” I ask, and when it
comes out of my mouth, I can tell right away that it was the
wrong thing to say.
Aden sighs, so hard that I feel the air travel across the
space between us and hit my face. His breath still smells
like toothpaste, and it makes me want to kiss him. Because
I'm an ass, I actually pucker up and try.
Aden backs away from me so fast, he almost trips and
falls. He rubs his elbow, which banged into the door we'd
just come through, and shakes his head.
“No, Logan. No. I can't just kiss you and pretend like
everything is okay. This band…it's important to me. When I
came to New York for school, I thought it would be easy to
find people who took music seriously. But a lot of people
who go here are so damn pretentious. When I met you, I
was like, Yes. Here's a guy who wants what I want. Wants it
for real. But you're not making the music your priority.
Something is going on. And I think it has something to do
with your old band.”
I blink. Once, twice, three times. With each blink, I
realize something new.
I'm ruining the one potentially good thing in my life by
being a total asshole.
I don't deserve another chance, but he's giving me one,
right now.
I should probably tell him about Bram.
“I, uh,” I say. “I, um…”
Aden presses his lips together and opens the door to go
back inside. He swings it wide and is about to step through,
and in that moment, I feel the weight of what his walking
away will mean: no band means no music. But then it hits
me that what I'm most afraid of losing in that moment is
him. Not as a bandmate or even as a guy who I enjoy
kissing from time to time. Aden, I realize, is my friend.
When he turns away, it feels like he's cut me open.
“Aden, wait,” I say.
I start crying. And Aden's eyes go wide because I've
lied to him so much that he's never seen the way I really
feel about anything. Including him.
“I'm sorry, okay? Can you close the door? I'm sorry. I'll
talk. I'll tell you everything. Just let me. Please?”
He moves his hand so the door slips shut. He walks
back over to me, and we walk toward the street to sit down
on the ice-cold curb. He bites his bottom lip. His eyes are
so dark, and we're sitting so closely together, that I can see
tiny reflections of myself in them.
I swipe my arm across my face, and try to blink away
the tears that are left. “You know that kid from my school
who died? The one who was all over the news?” And when
Aden nods, I take a deep breath and begin.
By the time I get to the part of the story where Nico
told me what really happened the day Bram committed
suicide, I'm sobbing so hard, I'm hiccupping.
“It's so hic messed hic up. I'm so hic messed hic-hic up.
And you,” I say. I look at him, and I can barely see him
because the tears are coming so fast and furious. “You're
hic always so fucking hic-hic nice hic to me, even when hic
I'm being a hic-hic dick, and I don't hic deserve it.”
Aden crosses his arms again. I can't read his
expression, and I'm terrified about what will happen next.
But he just drags his hands down his face and reaches out
for my hands, which are trembling where they're tucked
between my thighs.
“Take a few deep breaths,” he says softly. “This
happens to the kid I babysit, and that's how his mom tells
me to calm him down.”
I start trying to, but it kind of hurts to breathe. I didn't
even know that Aden babysat, which is just more proof of
how awful a friend I am.
“That's good,” Aden says. He looks down at his shoes,
which are brown leather boots with bright red laces.
“Logan. I'm really glad you told me all that. But what I
don't get is why you felt like you couldn't tell me in the first
place.” He looks over at me, and his eyes seem sad. “I
thought we were friends.”
My head aches, so I hold it in my hands. My eyes hurt,
so I close them. My throat feels like I've been screaming for
hours. But I still manage to say, “We are.”
“I'm sorry you feel…responsible for what happened to
Bram. And it sucks that he died,” Aden says. He pauses for
a beat, and when I open my eyes, he's staring at his hands.
“But you're drinking all the time. And even with the
amazing rehearsal we just walked away from, I'm worried
you don't care about this band, or anything, very much. It's
fine that you're still in love with him—”
“What?” I say, standing up. “I'm not.”
“Yeah, you are, Logan. I can tell by the way you talk
about him.” Aden shakes his head and meets my eyes
again. “You should see your face right now.”
I think about the last few months. How consumed I've
been. My life has revolved around Bram's death like the
duller planets revolve around the sun. Everything about
Bram was like an undeniable force while he was alive. Even
now he still has a hold on me like gravity.
I've been trying to stop myself from picturing Bram's
eyes, from imagining his smile, from wanting every piece of
him. But I can't—I never could—so Aden must be right.
This kind of longing has to be love.
I'm in love with a boy who hasn't been mine to love for
half a year. A boy who belonged to his mother and Yara,
Nico and no one, all at the same time. A boy who left a
gaping hole in my life when he dumped me and who carved
an even larger one right through everything when he died.
What the fuck am I supposed to do now?
“I think we should break up,” Aden says, and his voice
cracks on those very words. “That came out wrong. Not us.
I mean, we probably shouldn't hook up anymore. But what I
really mean is the band. I think we're in different places.
And I'll be honest—I stuck it out because your voice is
amazing. It also helps that you're hot as hell. But being a
part of a band is the most important thing to me right now.
With people who are as focused and serious about this as I
am.”
Even though he doesn't say anything else, I can see
what he's thinking in his eyes: In the meantime, maybe you
should try to get your shit together.
It looks like he wants to kiss me, but he doesn't. “Let's
tell Nico that Undying Light is no more.”
I nod, but when we get back inside, before Aden can
say anything, I speak up.
“Why don't you two just look for a new singer?” I say.
Aden looks at me as if he doesn't know who I am. And
I'm not sure where the idea came from, but something
about it feels right.
“What?” Both he and Nico say this at the same time.
“You heard me. You guys sound good together. Good as
hell.” I swallow hard, and my eyes start to sting again. I try
not to think about how blotchy my face must be.
“I don't want to be responsible for another band falling
apart.”
Nico nods because he knows I'm the reason Unraveling
Lovely broke up. Aden gets this weird, sad look on his face.
“Are you sure, Logan?”
He's using my full name, so I can tell he's all business. I
hesitate for a second, but then I say, “Don't look so upset.
You'll be fine.”
“Maybe,” he says. “But will you?”
I smile. “I'll survive. I swear.”
Aden comes over and hugs me, hard. “I'll miss jamming
with you,” he says.
“Jesus, Aden. We can still jam,” I tell him.
“Stop being so damn adorable,” Nico says, and Aden
laughs.
I say goodbye to both of them. I tell them I'll definitely
be at any shows they play. I wish them good luck.
When I turn to walk away I don't look back, but I can
hear when they start talking and laughing, strategizing and
comparing notes on who might be able to take my place in
a band I started. Before the door closes all the way, I hear
them start to play music.
I grab a coffee and then sit on the steps of one of the
university buildings to drink it. I watch the cars for a while
before I pull out my phone to add Undying Light to the
Battle of the Bands website, something I was planning to
do anyway as soon as we came up with a name. I go to the
band description. I hesitate for a second, and then I cry a
little as I type in Aden Brooks as the guitarist and Nico
Aronson as the drummer, leaving the line for lead singer
blank. It's only now, staring at the page, that I realize
Undying Light is another failed band of mine that begins
with the letters U and L. “Motherfucker,” I say to myself.
The subconscious mind is a bitch.
I upvote them, even though there's no music on the
page yet, and I feel cleaner somehow—like the tears
washed something away or, at least, like telling Aden about
Bram and sacrificing myself so that Undying Light could
continue wasn't a mistake.
I check the time on my phone. It's 9:34 p.m. Ironically,
as soon as I don't have a band, I'm able to type out a line of
lyrics that I don't hate. The familiar swirl of words and
music starts to fill me up like sadness, and I finish the song
I've been trying to finish for so long. Then I get the urge to
write another one.
BAMF // DEMO REVIEW…OUR NUMBERED DAYS
It would be easy for me to say that Our Numbered Days is
awesome. The lead guitarist, Rohan Malik, is one of my
best friends. I could call their single “Relatively Speaking”
“inspired,” and because I've known her for years I could
mention that Jo Rollins kills on the drums. I could also
praise Pooja Patel, for her work on the bass, because she
and I bonded while UL was on tour last summer. And Marc
Black on the keyboard takes all of it to the next level. But I
won't say any of those things. I'll just say this: all they have
is a demo so far, but you can bet your ass they're gonna
make waves.
—Shay (Sasha's sister)
I'm not ready to find someone else to write reviews for
BAMF, but I'm pretty sure Callie will kill me if we don't stay
on the schedule she created and laid out in the content
calendar. So I write a review of Our Numbered Days's
demo myself.
It's not as good as Sasha's reviews were—she had this
great way of distilling a whole album into a few sentences.
(People are lazy, I hear Sasha say in my head. They like it
short and sweet.) But it's a start. I read over the review,
making sure I don't have any typos, and I post it with a
photo of Rohan that Deedee took, since their demo doesn't
have any album art.
I go downstairs to Sasha's room, and when I push the
door, open, Mom's in there, lying on Sasha's bed. Her sad
music is playing. And she's crying, looking straight up at
the ceiling.
“Mom?” I say because I've never seen her cry except
during sad movies. She turns her head and just opens her
arms to me. And it's weird that it doesn't feel weirder when
I walk over and fall against her. I can't remember the last
time we were close like this.
“I couldn't remember what she smelled like,” Mom
whispers as one sad song ends and another one starts.
“It's like a mix of flowers and laundry lint,” I say, and
she laughs.
“Well, yeah. It's kind of impossible to ignore in here.”
“Momma?” I say.
“Hmm?”
“I'm sorry for that stuff I said, or I guess, the way I said
it. I'm glad you're here now.”
She squeezes me tighter to her, and I feel like a little
kid. I wish I could stay here in Sasha's bed, in Mom's arms,
forever.
“I'm sorry it was true,” she says.
She shifts around, and my sleeve slips up a little. She
sees the tattoo. I try to yank it back down, but I'm too slow.
“Is that a…?”
Crap. “Don't be mad,” I say, sitting up and crossing my
arms.
She sighs. “Let me see it, Shay.”
We only just got to a good place, and I don't want to
ruin it. But I guess being in a truly good place includes
being honest.
She puts her hand out, and I sigh and place my wrist in
her palm.
“It's a little red,” she says. “Are you moisturizing it
correctly? Make sure it doesn't get infected.” She twists my
wrist from side to side. “Is that her handwriting?” she asks.
I nod. She bites her lip and nods, too. Then she drops my
arm.
I look at her. “That's it?”
She shrugs and then sinks back down into Sasha's bed.
“I mean, don't get me wrong. I'm mad. You should have
asked me first, and I don't even think I want to know how a
sixteen-year-old got a tattoo without parental permission.
But mostly, I'm surprised. I would have guessed you'd be
too scared.”
She doesn't say it, but I know what she's thinking:
Sasha was the gutsy one.
“Maybe needles scare me less because I had to give so
much blood to Sasha.”
Mom looks at me for too long and then stretches her
arms out again.
Once I'm tucked against her, the fabric of her shirt
making soft sounds in my ear, I whisper, “It was pretty
scary, though.”
She chuckles.
We read the words written across Sasha's ceiling to
each other, and Mom asks me where each quote is from.
“That one's definitely from a song,” I say, “and I'm
pretty sure that one is completely made up.” Mom laughs.
“No, Shay. That's poetry,” she says. “ ‘Do I dare disturb
the universe?' I remember that from college.”
“Sasha was so much smarter than me,” I say.
“Nah,” Mom disagrees. “She just had a lot of time to
read.”
When she turns on the TV, Intervention is on.
“What in the world?” she says.
“No, Momma, I swear. It's so good. This is a really good
one—she's addicted to those lollipops pregnant people use
to help their morning sickness.”
Mom looks at me as if I'm speaking French, but she
watches and keeps watching, and when she says, “Oh Lord,
this one is about meth? Should you be watching this? I feel
like a bad parent….” she pauses. “Maybe just one more.”
In my head I hear Sasha say, See, you guys do have
something in common!
—
My phone vibrates from where it lies between us on the
bed, and it makes us both jump. We'd fallen asleep,
cuddling, wrapped up together, the way Sasha and I used
to. Mom starts laughing while I rub my eyes and pick up my
cell. It's a group text with Callie and Deedee.
CALLIE: Your review has so many likes!!!!
SHAY: How many is so many?
DEEDEE: EVERY TIME I REFRESH THERE ARE MORE.
SHAY: Like more than a thousand?
CALLIE: More than 5,000 ;)
SHAY: No way.
DEEDEE: I'M TAKING SCREENSHOTS.
I go to the BAMF blog. And there are 5,381 notes, and
more are pouring in. I read over my post. There's nothing
exceptional about it. I click through to look at some of the
reblogs. But (not) surprisingly, no one is really talking
about my review. They're talking about Rohan, Unraveling
Lovely, and Sasha.
Hey, it's the guitarist from Unraveling Lovely!
I miss UL.
I miss Sasha's reviews.
His new band is called Our Numbered Days, and his gf
died???
OMG, this is SO SAD.
So I guess it was the combination of Rohan's photo and
saying I'm Sasha's sister that pushed the review over the
edge. I miss UL too.
I tell the girls.
SHAY: Looks like people just fangirling over Rohan.
DEEDEE: And people sad about Sasha…
CALLIE: Yeah.
None of us say anything for a while. I read a few more
comments and then send another message.
SHAY: What if we got Unraveling Lovely back
together?
CALLIE: If that were possible, wouldn't you have
tried it by now?
DEEDEE: Not necessarily. How would she have had
time to organize a reunion show?
SHAY: Dee, you're brilliant. An Unraveling Lovely
reunion show needs to happen!
CALLIE: In loving memory of Sasha!
DEEDEE: OMG. YES.
I think about Dante then, and his sister. To my friends I
send, In loving memory of Sasha AND Tavia.
They both send clapping emojis.
I ask Callie to find what nights The 715, our favorite
venue, has open in the next couple of months and then tell
Deedee to make sure she stays quiet about this so Rohan
doesn't find out, because she's horrible at keeping secrets.
I want to surprise him as a thank-you. He organized the
intervention, and it's changed everything.
I know Rohan will be into the idea, so I just have to win
over Dante. Since Logan was the one who ruined
everything, I have a feeling he'll like the chance to make
amends, but Logan's a real wild card. I message Dante
first, since I've spoken to him so much more recently. Dante
told me he's always looking for a reason to get out of the
house, and the show will be for his sister too, so I hope he'll
be into this plan. Logan is a lot scarier than Dante.
Is Ro in? Dante sends minutes after I message him.
He will be, I send back. You know Ro can't stay mad at
anyone for very long.
I'm still pretty pissed, Dante sends. But I guess I'm in.
Cool, I send, trying to sound less excited than I actually
am.
I think we're done, but a second later, my phone chimes
again.
The real question is, will Logan even show up?
He better, I text back. Then I hold my breath and send a
message to Logan.
—
Jerome is wearing his tweed blazer when I find him after
school the next day. He's posted up near an empty
classroom at the end of the hallway where my locker is. I
follow him after he looks at me and steps inside the room.
“Hey,” I say. I hug him, but I'm immediately not sure if
it's the right thing to do.
“Hey,” he says, against my ear. I want to kiss him so
badly, but I bite my bottom lip so I won't. I tug on one of his
lapels, to put a little space back between us.
“You look like a college professor with this thing on.”
Jerome grins and slips the blazer off. He walks to the
front of the classroom and drapes it over the teacher's
chair.
I sit in one of the desks in the front row.
“So,” I say. He levels me with his shiny brown eyes and
bats his thick eyelashes, but he doesn't say anything. He's
waiting for me to do all the talking.
“I guess I like you,” I say. He smiles pretty widely, so I
put up my hand. “Wait! I'm not done. I like you, but I don't
know you very well. I want to get to know you better,” I
continue. “And I want you to get to know me, too. When
we're kissing, we don't do much talking.”
“That's true,” he says. He looks a little uncomfortable
for a second, and I'm worried he was only in it for the
make-out sessions—that he doesn't like me enough to just
want to hang out. But then he says, “So you want to be just
friends?”
“For now,” I say. “But don't say ‘just friends.' Friends
are really important to me.”
He nods. “I get it,” he says, and then gets quiet. “I,
uh…I don't usually say too much.”
“Only during interventions, huh?” I ask, smiling.
He grins. “I speak up when it counts,” he says.
“I still can't believe you guys Interventioned me.”
“But you're better?” he asks in that way of his.
I think of Dante. “I'm working on it.”
FEB. 4, 5:39 P.M.
Are you angry that Dante kissed me?
…
Because Dante keeps kissing me.
Tavi, I don't know what to do. I keep kissing him, too.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Feb. 4, 11:17 p.m.
Subject: <none>
On the way to school, Dante kissed me again. Like we've
been dating for months. Like it isn't weird or the kind of
thing that normal people talk about. It's like yesterday I
was your best friend—someone he wasn't even speaking
to. But today I'm his girlfriend, without ceremony, without
the question of us even being discussed. And oddly
enough, I'm mostly okay with it. But some part of being
with him still feels like I'm betraying you.
As soon as I climb into Dante's car, he kisses me. And
afterward, we smile, but we don't say anything. It's like
we've come to an understanding. Or like we're finally
acknowledging that, behind the veil of our grief for you—
our anger about what happened and how—we've been
sinking into something like love, falling for each other
slowly this whole time.
But God. I want to talk to you about it so badly. I want
to tell you how he makes feel, the way I always told you
everything else. I want, more than anything, to know what
you'd think.
When he reaches across the space between our seats a
minute later and lays his wide palm on my knee, I jump a
little. Not because I don't want him to touch me—because
believe me, it is quite the opposite. But because I'm so
deep in thought about how you'd feel or what you'd think
about us that I'd forgotten where I was. Dante pulls his
hand away.
We both say sorry quickly, like we're strangers on a
blind date. Like I didn't hold his head while he cried a week
ago, or like he hadn't carried me across a beach against my
will last Saturday. And then we both say, “What are you
sorry about,” speaking at the same time all over again.
We laugh and look out of our windows. Then I think we
both feel badly about laughing, so we look at our laps. If he
thinks anything like I do, I bet he still feels a little guilty
having any kind of fun without you.
“You first,” he says.
I sigh because I don't know what to say or where to
start. I pull my sleeves over my shaking hands. “I didn't
mean to jump; you just surprised me, that's all.”
I want to tell him that he can touch me whenever he
wants. I want to reach out and put his hand back on my leg.
“It's just that…that night—” I say. And I stop. In my
mind, the truth has been spinning since I woke up this
morning. I was with you when I should have been with her.
I want to kiss you, but something about it feels…not wrong.
But not right, either.
He says, “Autumn, I know,” as if I said the thought out
loud. Then he actually looks a little nervous.
“I feel the same way, but whatever this is…with us? It
isn't going away.”
We're still sitting in my driveway, and if we don't leave
soon, we were going to be late for school. The car's
running, but instead of shifting into drive, Dante turns the
keys the wrong way and kills the engine.
“I'm shit with words” is what he says next. “But you
know how things have been. You know probably better than
anyone, and I don't want you to think that this”—he moves
his hand back and forth in the space between us—“is just
some fluke like that fight with Perry. Just something I'm
doing because my head is fucked. I like you. I've liked you
for a while. I liked you before…”
I look up at him, and he's looking at me, like he's never
seen me before. The tops of my ears go all hot, and I'm
terrified that I'm blushing like an idiot on top of having just
jumped out of my skin when he touched me.
He drums his fingers on the steering wheel, and I
watch them fly up and down. I still haven't said anything,
and I think my silence is getting to him. He lets his hair fall
over his eyes and cheekbones, so that when I look back up,
I can only see the lower half of his face: a bit of his nose;
his square jaw; black stubble; pink lips.
He looks at me again with those molasses eyes, and
because I don't know what he's going to say or do next, my
heart beats so hard that I can hear it in my ears.
He reaches out again and tucks some of my hair behind
my ear, and he leaves his hand there, in that soft place
right behind my jaw. But this time, even though I know he
can probably feel my racing pulse, I don't move away.
“It feels kind of freakishly right, doesn't it? Us?” He
says, “It feels like it should have been this way before now.”
I feel myself nodding, and I feel my hands growing as
warm as my face, and I feel like I need to kiss him or cry.
“We can take it slow,” he says. “I just…I don't want to
make you do anything you're not ready for. Or anything you
don't really want to do.”
I bite my bottom lip. “Have we met? I never do
anything I don't want to do,” I say.
When he grins, I put one of my hands over his and
unbuckle my seat belt with the other. I lean across the
emergency brake and then kiss him with my eyes screwed
shut so tightly that I can't see anything that might make me
hesitate, like his cheekbones, which are insanely high like
yours, or the still-bruised skin below his eye, or like my
house, which is just beyond the window, where my parents
could have been watching.
When I pull away, I keep my hands and eyes busy with
my seat belt and then, once Dante starts the car again, with
the radio. I can barely look at him because I can't believe
any of what's happening.
You know that I've only ever kissed two other boys, but
I've never felt what I feel when I kiss Dante.
By the time we pull into the school parking lot, my
breathing and heart rate have slowed down to something
closer to normal. And when I sneak a glance at Dante, he's
watching me already and grinning a real grin. I reach for
my bag, and he kisses my cheek, but I turn toward him,
hoping he'll kiss my lips instead.
I zip up my puffy jacket and try not to catch my
reflection in his side-view mirror. Even now I don't know
what he sees.
I've never felt very pretty. Next to your strong Latin
features—your bronze skin, your wide brown eyes, your
plump lips and wild hair—everything about me seemed too
subtle. I was always beside you, so I got used to it. And I
was all right with fading into the background; with letting
you have the spotlight because more often than not, you
shared it with me. But when your brother looks at me, with
the same skin and eyes and lips as you, part of me wants to
be beautiful. I want to be curvier and brighter and lovelier
in any way I can.
But at the same time, the other part of me—the part
that's looking back at him? That part feels like what I look
like doesn't even matter because, for whatever reason,
Dante sees me.
I'd like to say that when he looks at me I feel like the
prettiest girl in the world, but something about him makes
it so much more than that. When Dante looks at me, I feel
like the brightest star in the sky. And I don't know what to
do with a feeling like that.
“Will I see you at lunch?” I ask him, even though I don't
want to wait that long.
“I'll meet you at your locker after first period,” he says.
I guess he doesn't want to wait either.
I grin. I feel my lips curve up, and I can't believe I'm
smiling.
“She smiles,” Dante says. And he touches my hair
before he walks away.
I guess I do, I think. But then I want to tell you what's
just happened and remember that I can't. I stop smiling
and start talking myself out of crying.
I text Alexa to tell her about the kiss, and she texts
right back and says everything I want to hear: a few
“OMGs,” that Dante is “soooo hot,” that you would have
been so happy for us. But I still stay in the parking lot until
it's empty. I type out a message to you.
Then I walk to first period, the soundtrack to our last
summer together playing in my ears, and I try not to miss
you. I sit next to Faye, and I pass her a note about the kiss
and try not to wish I were pressing the folded secret into
your palm instead. I try not to count the minutes until I can
see Dante again.
When I turn the corner after my first class, Dante's
waiting for me, like he said he would be, smiling.
That's when he asks if I want to go to Winnie's after
school. I say yes, thinking it will be just like every other
time we've been there.
But it isn't. I don't realize until we're three blocks away
from school that his car smells a little different. I sniff the
air, then lean over and sniff him.
“Why are you wearing cologne?”
He kind of blushes. Tavia, your brother blushed. Then
he says, “I borrowed some, since this is our, um, first date.”
I look down at myself. I'm wearing a bright purple Alice
in Wonderland hoodie with the creepy, grinning Cheshire
Cat on the front, and he's wearing an adorable, baby blue
polo and cologne.
He looks at me and smiles a little. He says, “I want to
take you to this show after, if that's okay.”
“Can I think about it?” I ask him. Going to shows still
feels like something that belongs to you and me alone.
“Sure,” he says.
At the diner, I feel awful. I keep patting my unwashed
hair, and I pick at my food but can't really eat it. I keep
thinking that if you were here, you would have known that
he was asking me out. You would have warned me, and
maybe I would have told him that usually, you give girls
more of a heads-up about this kind of thing. Then you
would have helped me pick out a cute shirt to wear, and I
might have even let you put makeup on my eyes.
I excuse myself from the table, go into the bathroom,
and call Willow. She picks up on the first ring, and at the
sound of her voice, I unexpectedly feel like I want to cry.
“Hey,” she says. There's noise in the background, so I
wonder what she's doing. College seems so far away to me
right now, like it's some country on the other side of the
world that I can't be really sure of.
“Hi,” I say, and there must be something pathetic in my
voice, in that one word, that gives me away. I hear her
telling people that she'll be right back, a door closing, and
then, suddenly, her side of the phone is as quiet as mine.
“What's wrong? Are you okay?”
I stare at myself in the mirror, unsure of where to start.
I feel like a terrible sister because of the way I'm
always calling and texting her now. We talked a few times a
week before, but I never called her this much when I had
you. I don't think she thinks about my calls like that, like
she's my substitute best friend. But I do.
“Um, yeah. I'm fine,” I tell her. “It's just that I'm on a
date with Dante and—”
She doesn't let me finish before she says, “Wow, he's
not wasting any time, huh?”
I don't know what I was expecting her to say, but it
wasn't that.
I try not to sound offended when I ask, “What does that
mean?”
“I'm just worried, dude. Seems like things are moving
kinda quickly. I mean, you weren't even speaking to him the
last time I was in town. Plus, you both just experienced a
pretty major trauma.”
She sighs when I don't say anything.
“Don't you think you should ease into things, just to be
safe? Just to make sure what you're feeling is real?” But
she doesn't know that Dante and I were flirting with the
idea of us before you even died. She doesn't know that
while you were at the last party you'd ever go to, I was
holding your brother's hand in his dim bedroom moments
away from doing more.
She doesn't know, and since I can't tell you first, I don't
want to tell her at all.
I want to get angry with her. I even feel the heat start
to creep up the back of my neck, the way it always does
when I get upset. I want to tell her that I trust my heart,
that I know my own feelings, that I'm not some lovesick
little kid. That even though she's a psych major she doesn't
actually know anything.
But then I think about how fast this has all been
happening. That I didn't even know this was a date. I start
to think my big sister might have a point. So I stay quiet.
I wonder what you would have said.
“I've been meaning to ask you about something,”
Willow says, changing the subject. I lean against the sink
and wait for her to keep talking. I'm slightly worried that
Dante will think I left the restaurant, but I want to hear her
out.
“I'm going to travel this summer,” she says. “I'm going
to Europe: London, Paris, and maybe Brussels and
Amsterdam. Ten weeks altogether. I think you should come
with me.”
“Really?” I ask.
“Mm-hmm,” she answers. “It could be good to get
away, don't you think?”
I'm not sure. Right now, I like being surrounded by your
things and your family. I like your brother, a lot. And since I
don't have you anymore, I can't imagine going somewhere
where I wouldn't be able to see your room or your clothes
or your parents if I wanted to.
“I'll think about it,” I tell her. But mostly, I'm thinking
about Dante. It's only been a few hours of us being this new
thing. But being away from him doesn't really seem like
something I'd want…ever.
“But what do I do now?” I plead. “We're at a diner, and
he has on a polo and I have on a freaking hoodie.”
Willow laughs. “Autumn, I know you're, like, really into
him and everything, but it's still just Dante.”
Oddly enough, her saying that actually helps.
When I get back to the table, Dante's almost done with
his burger. And with Willow's words floating through my
mind—it's still just Dante—I look at him and see someone
else entirely. I still see the gorgeous boy who I've dreamed
of kissing for months, but I also see the goofball who threw
water balloons at us when we were ten. I see his dark,
dreamy eyes, but the awkward twelve-year-old whose feet
grew to a size eleven before the rest of his body caught up
is also there. I see the sexy drummer from Unraveling
Lovely shows last summer, but I can't ignore the sweetfaced, tough kid—who chased away anyone who made fun
of me in middle school—peeking out at me too.
“Hey,” I say to him. “Sorry.” I sit on his side of the
booth, because, yeah, I'm wearing a hoodie, but this is
Dante. Our Dante. Maybe even my Dante. He likes me, and
I need to trust that.
He takes my purple hood and pulls it over my head, and
I start laughing because I feel so ridiculous.
I look down at my sweatshirt. At the creepy cat smiling
back up at me. When I look back up at Dante he says, “I
like your shirt.”
“Cheshire Grins would be a pretty good name for a
band,” I say to him.
He smirks. “If I ever join another one, I'll tell them my
girl has the perfect name already picked out.”
I try not to float away from the table because he called
me his girl, but I am a balloon full of air barely tethered by
a too-thin string. I grab my plate, dump ketchup on the
edge of it, and take a huge bite of my burger while Dante
grins and watches me.
I tell him I'll pass on the show. That if he wants to go,
he can go without me. But he shakes his head. “I'd rather
hang out with you,” he says.
We go to my house instead of yours and watch a movie
in the basement. We throw kettle corn into each other's
mouths, and we steal sweet, salty kisses that make my
heart work like it never has before. By the time he goes
home, my cheeks are sore from smiling.
If I could call you right now, I'd only want you to
answer one question:
“Does dating always feel like flying?”
BRAM IS BORED so he shaves his head.
3,226 views | 8 months ago
Yara's house is dark when I turn on to her block the night
of the vigil. And as I approach her door I think I've made a
mistake coming here tonight. I'm cool with Yara and Paige,
but I don't know these other kids, and I'm sure some of the
jerky jocks I hate will be inside. But as I get closer I hear
music.
My music. Unraveling Lovely is blaring through
speakers that I can't see, and it's loud as hell. My voice is
filling the dark air like thunder during a storm. I frown for
a second, wondering if I'm gonna be the butt of some
popular douchebag's joke. But Yara's expecting me, so I
knock anyway. A bridge and half of the chorus plays while I
wait. And I can't help it—I start singing along. I'm belting
out the longest, loudest note ever when Yara opens the
door. She's grinning like a little kid.
“You're late,” she says in a flirty voice that tells me
she's definitely under the influence of something. I
immediately want some of whatever it is she's had, and
that's when I realize I haven't had any alcohol since
Undying Light's first rehearsal last weekend.
“I like to make an entrance,” I say, and she laughs. I
want to drink, but I know I shouldn't. So instead of asking
where the booze is, I say, “You're playing my song.”
Yara nods without saying a word, reaches through the
door, and pulls me inside by the hand.
“Logan's here!” Yara shouts as she turns and starts
down a short hallway. She keeps hold of my hand, like I'll
get lost if she doesn't. I keep my head down, part of me
wondering what the hell I was thinking coming here
tonight. Part of me drinking in the music that I still can't
believe is floating through the house.
All the lights are off, and candles are everywhere. They
glow from the tops of bookshelves and mantels, and there
are a shit ton in the center of her dining room table. I look
around and notice guys from the football team sitting in
one corner, away from all the candles. Their faces are the
brightest things in the room, lit up by the screens of their
phones. They nod at me as I pass instead of calling me a
freak. It's kind of nice.
I see some of the other cheerleaders—pretty, bitchy
girls I kinda remember being friends with in middle school,
when we were all in the drama and glee club together,
when people cared less about having the right kinds of
friends. I see a few other kids who I wasn't really expecting
to be here: Bram's nerdy tutor, a guy from the debate team,
Nico.
“Wait, Nico's here?” I ask. Yara barely glances at him.
“Yeah,” she says. “I know, I know. I should hate him,
right?”
“Um, yeah,” I say, not sure how much of the story she
knows. But any one piece of it—the drugs, the sex tape, the
night Bram died—should be more than enough.
“Bram is the one who decided to take pills or whatever.
I can't hate Nico for a choice Bram made.”
I don't think “everyone” knows Nico is the guy from the
sex tape like he said. And of course the only two friends I
have in school would be two people who have every reason
to hate each other—two people whose secrets I know and
have to keep.
Surrounded by all these candles and all these people, I
feel a little like it's the end of the world, and by some
fucked-up twist of fate, we're the only ones left.
“I think you know everyone, right?” Yara asks as she
leads the way through the flickering rooms and into the
kitchen.
“Mostly,” I say. I squeeze Nico's shoulder as I walk by
him. I'm about to ask her what the plan for the rest of the
night is, but I get distracted. Because as soon as I open my
mouth, a new song starts to play. It's called “Unknown.” It's
another one of mine.
It's cold in the kitchen because there's a window open.
I'm guessing that's why I could hear the music from
outside. We stop in front of the fridge, and Yara finally
releases my hand as she flings the door open. The hard
rims of the dozen or so beer cans that line the door ping
against each other.
I point into the air because it's the closest I can get to
pointing to the music. I actually say “no thank you” to a
beer when she tries to push one into my other hand.
“Why are you playing UL?” I ask her. Something like
nervousness is fluttering against my chest while I wait for
her to answer.
She keeps the beer for herself, and instead of opening
it she grabs a knife from the dish rack next to the sink and
jabs it into the side of the can. It sprays across the front of
her shirt a little, and she laughs.
She puts the hole to her lips, pops the top, and I watch
as dainty Yara, in her fucking pink Uggs and miniskirt,
shotguns the whole twelve ounces in less than a minute.
She burps. Loud as hell.
I would never admit it out loud, but Yara's a little
badass.
“You didn't know?” she says. “Bram was your biggest
fan.”
She walks out of the kitchen without saying anything
else, and I open the fridge again and pull out a Coke. It's
not cherry, but it'll do. I hop up onto the granite counter,
which is ice cold with the window open, but I don't mind.
Bram liked my music.
It shouldn't be a surprise. He loved the stuff I wrote
while we were together. But it's different to hear that he
listened to it, even after I broke his fucking nose.
I sip my soda and let the lyrics swell inside me, and I
feel like a cracked vase that's just been filled with
expensive roses: broken but beautiful. When I finish my
drink, I reach into the fridge, grab another one, and head
back to the family room, where everyone else is sitting,
feeling like a goddamned rock star.
“Remember that time he jumped off the roof of the rec
center and into the pool?” Kole Roberts is saying as I walk
in. I guess this is the storytelling part of the evening. A
bunch of the other guys, mostly from the football team,
laugh. Yara snorts.
“He got banned for that, you know,” she says, and
everyone laughs louder. “Not just from that pool, but from,
like, every public pool in the city.”
“Oh! But what about when he put on that fake British
accent to get out of speeding tickets?” a girl with blond
hair, whose name I can't remember, asks.
“How many times did he use that?” somebody else says,
but I can't see who.
“Pretty much every time he got stopped,” Dexter Lee,
another guy from the team, answers.
I smile and look down at my can of Coke. I'd heard
Bram's accent. It was damn good.
I stay quiet while a few other people talk about funny
or crazy or awesome things Bram had done or said. They
talk about his stupid videos and how they can't believe how
many views he'd started to get. They talk about the time he
shaved his head, just because he wanted to see the shape
of his skull. The team talks about great plays he'd made in
games, and the girls talk about how hot and sweet he was.
And even though I remember the Bram they're talking
about, they aren't remembering all of him. Maybe I've been
trying to forget the dark parts of him too, or maybe, like
them, I just didn't want to admit that the bad side of Bram
existed now that he's gone.
“Sometimes Bram could be an ass,” I say, thinking
about how he'd flip out at me for dumb things—forgetting
to return a DVD to him, not texting him back quickly
enough. Or the way he'd act like I was his bitch sometimes
in front of his friends. He never let them say shit about me,
but sometimes, he'd do it for them. The whole room goes
silent, the way it did when we were all kids and someone
used a curse word for the first time, but it feels worth it—to
make sure we remember him as he was, not just as we
wanted him to be.
Everyone is staring at me, but then Yara grins lazily.
“Yeah. But he was only like that to the dumbasses like
us, who actually loved him.”
And I can't help it. My eyes find Nico's.
Yara's eyes go glassy, even as she keeps the smile on
her face, and she's looking at me as if I'm the only person
here who understands her. And it should be a nice moment.
I should smile at Yara and agree with just my eyes as the
music I wrote plays in the background, like we're in a
shitty, sentimental TV movie or something. But I look away
because, even though we're becoming something like
friends, part of me hasn't let it go.
I loved him first.
Yara gets up and walks over to me, even though I'm
clearly trying to avoid making eye contact with her. She
sniffs and then touches my hand in a way that makes me
feel younger than I am. Hers are fingers used to touching
people; soft and warm and steady. I look down at our
hands. I'm almost used to the way hers feel on mine.
“I never really said sorry about the way the whole thing
with me and Bram went down,” she says. “I didn't know he
was, like, with you—with anyone—until you guys had
already broken up.”
I always knew that Yara was a transfer kid—that she
met Bram during the summer before our senior year. She
wouldn't have known about me unless someone told her.
And apparently, no one, not even Bram, did. But it was so
much easier to keep her, and everyone else, at arm's
length.
If she had said this to me a few weeks ago, I know I
would have said “bullshit” and walked away from her, no
questions asked. But the lighting or the music—or maybe
the way she's been so nice to me every day for no reason at
all—have made me feel differently. Her words make
something in my belly unknot.
I don't have a smart-ass comeback. I don't know what
to say. Bram told me that I would like Yara if I got to know
her. And he was so right.
“Thanks,” I say, and I'm not exactly about to cry, but all
of a sudden it's a lot harder to swallow.
Yara nods and sniffs a few times as she walks back to
the table. Paige pats her on the shoulder as Yara passes in
front of her. Then Yara picks up one of the candelabras
from a shelf.
“Grab your coats,” she says. “Time for the main event.”
I'd never taken my peacoat off, so I grab a small tea
light candle sitting in an old-fashioned copper holder. I
stand by the door waiting, looking for Yara in the dark.
Nico walks by. He grabs my hand, and I slap his back,
and we nod at each other but don't say anything. I want to
ask him about Undying Light—if they found a singer yet, if
they've written a song—but this isn't the time or place.
Even though I kind of gave him and Aden my blessing to
move forward without me, if and when they do, it'll still
sting.
I squint and spot Yara at the end of the long line of
kids. She's blowing out all the candles that got left behind.
Dozens of tiny spirals of smoke spin up into the air behind
her, and by the time she reaches the door, the tears that
have been pooling in her eyes are falling.
This time, I'm the one who reaches for her hand.
She looks past me at the kids gathering in her small
backyard. If we lived anywhere else in the world besides
Queens, there would probably be a fire pit or kindling or at
least something akin to a bonfire. But Yara just has a
charcoal grill set up in the center of the ten by ten square
of grass, and with the way everyone is standing around it,
they almost look like hobos crowded under a bridge.
Yara kind of dissolves at this point. Two of her friends
materialize out of the night and come to where we're
standing in the doorway. Each one takes one of Yara's arms,
and they walk her over to the grill, but she doesn't let go of
me, so I'm kinda dragged along with them.
Standing there, in the center of it all, I feel weirdly
closer to everyone, the way you can only feel when a crazy
or impossible thing unites you with a group of half
strangers. Nico comes over to me.
“I'll tell her, I swear,” he says, like he knows the
position his secrets put me in. “When she invited me, I
knew there was no way she knew about Bram and me. So
I'll tell her. Not tonight, though.”
I'm surprised nobody else has told her yet, to be
honest. But I just nod and put my arm around his shoulder,
thinking about how everyone is so much more complicated
than we think they are.
Take Bram. His mom was broke. He was dealing drugs.
He was using drugs. He failed a drug test and lost his
scholarships. He dumped Nico the same day he died—but
only after Yara dumped him first. I loved him. Maybe I still
love him, but I didn't really know who he was anymore.
Maybe I always imagined him a little too simply. I made him
into who I wanted him to be and ignored the person who
was right in front of me.
Someone grabs the lighter fluid and matches that are
on the ground beside the grill and lights the wood chips
stacked inside. A few minutes later, everyone starts walking
up to the fire and dropping pieces of paper into the flames.
Nico hands me a stack of Post-its and a Sharpie, and
then he steps closer to the flames, his own Post-its already
scribbled on and crumpled in his hand.
“They're memories,” a guy from the football team says,
explaining what's happening because I'm frowning.
“Everyone's writing down their best and worst memories of
Bram, and that's what they're throwing in.”
“Oh,” I say. “Right.”
A lot of people are crying, and some are even kissing
the papers or looking at the sky before tossing them into
the flames. It's a little melodramatic for my taste, but I can
get behind the sentiment.
Writing down my memories is the easiest part of the
whole night. Watching them burn is the hardest.
BEST: the first time you kissed me.
WORST: the day we broke up. The day you died. And just about every day in
between.
BAMF // SHAY'S ALBUM REVIEW…FOUND
OBJECTS
When I say that this album was transformative, I mean that
I am literally a different person after listening to it. The
haunting lyrics and synth sounds come together for
something that makes me feel like I'm floating through
space and tripping on acid at the same time.
I think Sasha would say, Sounds like: kinetic energy.
—Shay (Sasha's sister)
At away meets, I'm used to running with no familiar faces
in the audience. Track meets are boring enough as it is,
and when they're far away, my friends don't come. Most of
the onlookers here are holding signs in black and gray—the
colors of the team whose gym we're in. I glance over at the
girls warming up on the other side of the track, wondering
who my biggest competition will be once we're out and
running.
As I approach the starting line, my eyes sweep across
the crowd, and there's no one holding a sign with my name,
though I do see a few people wearing my school colors:
bright blue and green.
A queued post from Sasha arrived just before I started
warming up. It was a photo of the two of us doing yoga,
because Sasha never really had the lung capacity for
running. The caption read Keep Calm and Carry On—
nothing more. It felt like a message from her, just to me. So
as I warm up, I try to breathe a little more deeply—to clear
my head of everything: BAMF, Mom, even Jerome, and I
just “keep calm.”
As six girls line up beside me, I shake my hands and
jump up and down. This is my favorite part—the
anticipation. The not knowing exactly what's going to
happen. The indoor track should be a piece of cake since
I've been running and riding my bike out in the cold all
winter. So I'm not worried. I'm actually feeling a little
cocky. I'll make good time, and I might even place.
We all take our marks, and I look at my shoes. Then I
stare straight ahead at the track. When the buzzer sounds,
I propel myself forward, and the track unspools in front of
me. I become the rhythm of my feet as they hit the floor,
the rhythm of my heart as it crashes around in my chest,
the rhythm of my own breathing. I have tunnel vision, and
nothing can break my focus.
There's only one other girl in front of me as I round the
corner to start my last lap. I know I can pass her. But that's
when I see a flash of green and blue unfurl in a way that
makes me turn my head. I see a pair of brown hands
holding up a sign that says YOU CAN DO IT, SHAY!
I grin because Rohan didn't tell me he was coming, and
I put my head down and try to run faster. The smile on my
face widens as I lean forward, and even though I still finish
in a close second, Ro is here, and it makes me feel like I
finished first.
I rush toward the sign, panting and laughing. And just
before I'm about to say, “Why didn't you tell me you were
coming,” the person holding the sign lowers it, and it's
Mom's round face staring back at me instead of Rohan's.
My smile falls away faster than the drips of sweat
sliding down my back, mostly out of surprise.
“What are you doing here?” I ask, and immediately
wish I'd said something else.
Mom smiles a small smile and shrugs. “I got out of a
meeting earlier than I expected, and this school is actually
on the way home, so…”
Mom licks her lips and looks back behind her. She picks
something up from her seat, and then she's handing me a
bouquet of yellow roses. The flowers seem to be exploding
from the white paper they're wrapped in, and I don't know
what to say or do.
“Great job out there,” Mom says awkwardly. “You've
gotten faster since I last saw you run.”
I nod. I take the flowers and press my nose into them,
and the smell reminds me of Sasha. I look back up at Mom,
and I want to cry.
“I can't believe you're here,” I say, because I can't
remember the last time she came to a meet. I reach out to
hug her, and the spray of bright petals gets a little crushed
between us. A few fall to the floor as I step back, and I
think about picking up each one and slipping them into my
pockets; drying the whole bouquet the way Sasha used to
so I can keep them forever.
“Me neither,” Mom says, laughing.
She takes me out for ice cream. We go to my favorite
diner, and I order a banana split piled high with every
possible topping. Mom gets an apple turnover and a vanilla
milk shake.
And it's weird, but we talk. Mom asks me about school
and Rohan's band and boys. When I tell her about Jerome,
she asks how much I like him, then giggles at how much I
grin. When I explain the Unraveling Lovely reunion show
I'm trying to organize, she claps. She asks about running
and what training in winter has been like, and if I like offseason track and field as much as I love cross-country. She
wants to know about the beanie I'm wearing today: a skyblue one that Sasha knitted herself.
But we don't talk much about Sasha. Just the
occasional “She would have ordered this” or “She would
have said that.” When Mom gets quiet after we finish our
desserts, though, she asks if I'm planning to go back to the
Twinless Twins Support Group.
“I think so,” I say. “Even though most of the people
were way older than me, I just felt like they got it, you
know? In a way that even my friends, even you, don't.”
She nods. She looks nervous then, which is strange
because she's normally so confident. She takes out her
phone and starts typing something, then pushes it across
the table a minute later. The heading reads There's No
Word for Us. It's a website that lists support groups for
parents who have lost a child.
Mom says, “It's weird to think about, but the name of
the site is really true. You're a widow or a widower if your
spouse died. You're an orphan if you lose your parents.
Even you…You're—”
“Twinless,” I say.
“Right. But I'm not childless, thank God. I have you. So
what am I? There's no word for it, and I don't know why,
but something about not being able to say ‘I'm a whatever'
makes this harder to talk about. To even think about.”
I realize how many times I've had the thought I'm
twinless, and I totally get what she means. Then I think
about my mom for a second. I think about Sasha. I push my
spoon into the soupy remains of my banana split.
“You're Sasha-less,” I say, and my heart starts
thumping in a way that feels dangerous. Mom smiles, but
she doesn't look happy.
“Yeah, I am,” she says. “We both are.” She reaches
across the table for my hand. “Will you come with me to the
first meeting? There's one next Thursday. And since you've
been to one of these already, I figure you could, you know.
Show me how it's done.”
I swallow hard and push away the ache in my legs that
always makes me run away from too-hard conversations;
the urge inside me to push people aside. Maybe it's time to
be brave. Mom needs me.
“Yeah, of course. We can go to one of mine first, if you
want.”
She nods again. Mom looks scared but kind of relieved
by my suggestion. “Yeah, that sounds perfect. Let's do
that.”
She raises her hand to get the waitress's attention. And
I hear Sasha whispering in my head. But it's not really
words this time. It's like I can hear her smiling at us.
FEB. 5, 7:22 A.M.
Lately I've been thinking you'd want me to go on this trip
with Willow—to see this stuff because you never got the
chance to.
Is that a crazy way to feel?
FEB. 6, 8:37 A.M.
Your birthday is tomorrow, and just knowing that makes
me want to rip a hole in the universe. That day shouldn't
exist if you don't.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Feb. 7, 10:57 p.m.
Subject: <none>
July fourth was your favorite holiday, which makes sense,
as extravagant as you were. You liked the explosions. You
liked the crazy clothes. You liked that it was a celebration
of freedom, even though you weren't very patriotic at all.
So we bought sparklers for your birthday.
On Tavia Eve, as you called it, I'm at your house. Dante and
I go out with the sparklers as soon as it's dark enough to
use them, and we write your name in the air a hundred
times with light. I laugh as we spell out other words that
are yours alone, like “Sunchild,” something you always
called yourself, even though you were born in winter, and
“mother of Pearl,” something you've been saying all the
time since you swore off cursing last year.
After, we go to your room. Your mom is more and more
like herself these days, so I don't think the closed-door
privacy I've enjoyed with Dante for the last couple of weeks
will last much longer. But for now, we still have it, and I'm
glad. We decide to stay up until midnight like we've done
with you almost every year. Even two years ago, when you
had to be up super early the next morning to get ready for
your quinceañera. Even when you sobbed all night last year
because your parents refused to also throw you a sweet
sixteen.
So it's just the two of us, sitting here casting long
shadows, waiting for the alarm I set on my phone to go off.
We play cards on your floor and watch a few of your
favorite movies, and we drink a few beers that Dante
sneaks from the kitchen, even though you loved champagne
best. But when there's only a few minutes left, we just kind
of sit there looking at each other.
It's 11:47 p.m.
“What do you think she would have wanted?” Dante
asks me.
I smile and picture the birthday version of you in my
head: wearing a tiara and fancy clothes and makeup, even
when we were six. Even that year when you had the flu and
you were feverish and sick.
“Probably a sequin-covered dress. Or red glittercovered shoes. Or a new keyboard,” I tell him. “But she
would have said, ‘I need a gown that looks like the stars' or
‘ the shoes that Dorothy wore on the yellow brick road' or ‘I
want to make music,' and she would have made me or you
or your parents figure it out.”
Dante grins and touches the end of one of the braids I
put into my hair. I never did get it cut, so his hand and the
end of the braid are hovering near my elbow. After I cried
the first time, my hair didn't bother me as much anymore.
Plus, this is the last way you ever saw me. I feel like too
much is changing. I don't want to change that just yet.
I rub the side of Dante's face. It's getting scruffy
because he hasn't shaved in forever. His eyes are still so
bright and boyish, but we haven't been kids for a while. I
kiss his cheek despite the stubble, and it's rough beneath
my lips.
It's 11:51 p.m.
“What do you think she would have wanted to do?” he
asks me next. I twist my shaky hands together and squeeze
my own fingers.
“Probably go ice-skating to show off,” I say. “Or go to
karaoke to show off. Or go to a play and reenact the entire
thing once it was over because she'd think she could have
done the whole production better.”
I pause and drum my fingers on his knee. Look up at
him.
“Or maybe she would've just watched a movie with us.
Eaten some ice cream. Gotten drunk and covered us with
kisses. Fallen asleep spread across our laps like a kitten.”
Cats grow out of the overly affectionate habit, but you
never did.
He nods and nibbles on his bottom lip, and I start to
miss you in that sudden way that always makes me lose my
breath. I audibly inhale and exhale a few times, and Dante
grabs my hand.
It's 11:55 p.m.
A tear slips out of my eye before I can stop it. And when
I look up, Dante's crying too. He clears his throat, though.
And smiles one of his sad smiles. I press my lips together
and nod, even though he hasn't said anything.
“What do you think she would have said about us?” he
asks next, scooting closer to me on the bed. We're sitting
cross-legged, face-to-face, and he moves forward until our
knees are touching.
I have to swallow a few times before I speak so my
voice will come out right.
“Probably something funny. Probably something like
‘You guys can never procreate because I'd love that kid
more than anyone has ever loved anything.' ”
I don't look at him when I say, in a smaller voice, “Or
maybe she'd think it was weird.”
This is what we don't talk about. It is our biggest fear.
Because if you were alive, your brother would never have
asked me out without asking you first. And I'd never have
fallen for him without your permission. The first time we
hung out without you, you died. It haunts us.
We need your blessing, and you can't give it.
So we sit there with wet eyes, and Dante leans in close
to kiss me. His lips are soft, and his big hands are warm
where they rest on either side of my wet face.
“I don't think she'd think it's weird,” he says, stooping
his head and looking up at me through his thick fringe of
lashes. “We were her favorites.”
And being one of your favorites has always been one of
the things I liked most about myself. To be loved in a
special way by someone like you, who was loved by
everyone so much, was the best part of being your best
friend.
You could have had anyone you wanted. But you picked
me.
My alarm sounds softly, a tinkling piano version of the
happy birthday song, and Dante pulls me toward him and
then down, until we're lying side by side.
We stare at the ceiling. We hold hands. We stay quiet
and listen to the song.
On the fourth or fifth loop, I shut off my phone. I'm
weeping, but in the quiet kind of way, even though my
insides ache for you at a frequency so shrill, it would be
deafening if anyone could hear it. And Dante's crying again
too. He's shaking and covering his face with his hand, so I
press my shoulder into the vacant space below his lifted
arm. I press my wet eyes against his quivering neck.
When we're done crying, it's 12:14 a.m.
Dante brings the yellow cupcake with vanilla icing that
I bought earlier into the room from the kitchen and sits on
the floor with it. I climb down from the bed and sit across
from him as he pushes a tiny violet candle into the frosting.
It takes me six tries to light it because my hands are
trembling so badly. We blow it out together. Neither of us
wants to eat the cake, so we decide to save it until
morning.
“Happy birthday, Tavi,” I say.
And Dante says, “Wish you were here.”
He turns out the lights and then curls around me, right
there on the floor of your bedroom, and even though I
wasn't planning on sleeping over, it feels like he won't be
letting me go anytime soon. I don't want him to. I text my
mom and ask her if it's okay for me to stay the night. She
calls me, and when I answer, I don't even let her say
anything. “It's Tavia's birthday,” I whisper. “Please.”
She sighs, and hesitates, and then she says, “Okay. I
love you.”
I'm sure she would have said no if she could see the
tangle of limbs Dante and I are right now. If she could see
your brother, with his arms wrapped around my torso.
If I'm being honest, I'm almost as worried as my mom
is. I'm worried that I'm starting to cling to him the way I
clung to you; that I'm becoming more important to him
than I want to be. When you died, I got lost, and I'm still
finding my way back. As good as it feels to have someone I
need and who needs me, I don't want our lives to become
so wrapped up in each other's that we'd be broken if
anything were to happen. I have to know that I can live
without him. And he needs to be okay without me, too.
But I can't think about that for too long without feeling
like I'm going to cry again. So I close my eyes and imagine
you in a sequin-covered dress, and sparkly red shoes, with
a brand-new keyboard. I imagine you as I know you would
have been at seventeen: a glamorous show-off. A misfit
performer.
A beautiful mess.
—
When I close my eyes, I dream that it's fall. Your voice fills
my head all night.
Everywhere I look, all I see is you. This one's that
milky-tea color, like your skin, you say. You're holding light
brown leaves in your hand, collecting them as we walk
home from school, and we're ten or eleven or twelve.
You pick up a few more leaves. This one's sunset pink
like your lips. This one's purple, but it's almost as dark as
your hair. You hold them up to my face, like nature is a
palate for all the parts of me.
No wonder your name is Autumn, you say, giggling, and
I knock the leaves from your hands and start running so
you chase me home. I don't worry that you won't follow me,
and you know I'll never leave you too far behind, even
though I'm faster.
Then it's summer, and it's raining. You show up at my
door drenched and laughing in your pink bikini and yellow
rain boots. You coming? you ask me. Your bronze skin
shines, even though it's cloudy, and of course I'm coming,
so I run to get dressed. I step out of the house with a big Tshirt over my swimsuit. I'm barefoot because I like the
feeling of the gritty water and wet grass beneath my toes,
and we hold hands and jump into the puddles in my front
yard.
The scene changes again, and it's spring. You're
picking flowers and then making crowns out of the smallest
ones. You place a crown of buttercups on my head while I
bundle together bouquets for both our mothers, and the
petals tickle me just above my eyebrows. We wade through
a field of wildflowers and weeds, and you say, Dandelions
will always be my favorite flower. They change like
costumes. You pick a yellow one and tuck it behind your
ear. I pick a white dandelion puff and close my eyes. I make
a wish: that we can be together like this forever. I blow the
cloud of seeds out in front of me, like I'm blowing a kiss to
you. I wake up.
I turn to look through your bedroom window, and it's
bright white outside because we slept well into the
afternoon. Dante is standing there, with his finger hooked
into the curtain, pulling it aside. It's snowing, and it's your
birthday, and I feel so close to you after that dream. There's
only one way I can feel even closer.
“Let's go to the bridge,” I say.
Dante turns around and stares at me for a long time
before he answers. He chews his bottom lip and then rubs
the back of his neck. “Okay,” he finally says.
Dante drives and I stare through the window at the
snow, thinking about you. My hands are shaking, but I
squeeze them into tight fists so your brother won't notice.
Before we left your house, he asked if I was sure; if I
was ready. I told him yes, even though it wasn't true. But I
can't keep driving dozens of extra miles every time I have
to get on the freeway. I felt closer to you this morning than
I have since you died, and you've always had a way of
making me feel brave.
“You okay?” he asks, and I nod. But he sees my eyes,
even though I try to look away quickly.
“We don't have to do this today,” he says, reaching one
of his hands across the emergency break to lay it on my
thigh. I want to cover his hand with my own, but I don't
want him to see how badly I'm shaking.
“I know,” I tell him. “But we have to do it eventually. So
why not now?”
We're almost there. My throat throbs, but I try to keep
it together, at least until we get to the mile marker. Even if
we have to leave right away, I want to see the place where
you died. I know that if I can't stay calm, Dante will turn
the car around. And I don't want him to do that when we're
so close.
Dante looks nervous, too. He has that wrinkle in the
center of his forehead; you know the one I mean. And he's
holding the steering wheel with both hands now, so tightly
that his bronze skin had gone taut across the knuckles.
I look through the windshield and stare straight ahead.
I can see it. I can see the outlines of the teddy bears and
balloons, flowers and photos and cards. They're all still
there beneath the dusting of snow, a few red rose petals
and yellow plush fur poking out through the wet white
blanket. I don't know why, but I thought the gifts would be
gone by now. I wonder how long the authorities will leave
them there. Maybe they think it will serve as a warning.
Maybe they hope it will make people slow down.
Do you even know how it happened? You were
speeding, going too fast, in a rush to get to Perry to make
your dramatic declaration of love. They think you hit a
patch of black ice, lost control, and hit the guardrail, which,
on any other day, with any other car, might have stopped
the forward motion. But the angle was wrong or the car
was too heavy. Physics or maybe the universe was not on
your side.
Or you were just going way too fast.
We pull up short, and Dante turns off the car. He's the
one breathing heavily now, and I reach over to peel his
fingers from the steering wheel. I grip his hand in mine.
“Want to get out?” I ask him, hoping this won't turn
into a total disaster like when I asked him to take me to
school. He looks out of my window at the pile of lumpy
snow. I want to uncover it all to see what's there. I want to
know who came here before me.
He nods, but he doesn't move to open his door.
So I let go of his hand and open mine before I lose my
nerve. I step out into the snow, and it crunches a little
under my boots. I don't go around to open Dante's door.
He'll get out when he's ready.
I kneel in the pile of snow that's been pushed away
from the road by a plow. Only a few inches fell last night,
but here along the side of the road is where it's deepest.
With my gloved hands, I push away the thin layer covering
the gifts and lift the first thing my fingers uncover to get a
closer look.
It's a big sunflower stiffened from the cold, and a small
note is wrapped around the stem. The paper is wet, so I
unroll it carefully. I recognize it right away as a few lines of
Shakespeare, and even though the words are a bit
smeared, I can still read what it says.
“Deth ls n hr lke n ntml frst
Upn th swtst flwr f a th fild.”
Yu're gne t sn. I'm so sy. I' m ou.
It's from Alexa. I can imagine her small hands laying
that flower in the snow, and a few minutes later, I uncover
things from Margo and Faye, too. It feels wrong that there
isn't something here from me.
I walk down the shoulder a little farther. I dig out a tiny
stuffed dog and a large stuffed bunny. I grab a handful of
flowers and pictures of you with the drama club and the
choir. And by the time I hear Dante open and close his door,
my hands are full of everything everyone left behind for
you.
“Should we take this stuff?” I ask Dante when he gets
close enough to hear. But when I look up at him, I can tell
he isn't okay. He looks scared.
I reach out for him, but he flinches away from me. I
know what's going through his head. Because the second I
looked at him, I realized that for the first time in a long
time, it wasn't going through mine.
“If I had been driving, this never would have
happened,” he says. He squats down beside me and
clenches his jaw, his fists. “If I had been driving—” he starts
again, but I cut him off.
“If I had gone to the party. If you had gone to the party.
If she hadn't gone to the party. If it hadn't been icy. If she'd
taken a back road…” I stand up, and even though I've felt
so strong since I woke up this morning, tears are falling
like heavy stones from my eyes all of a sudden. But maybe
this is strength. Maybe holding on to all the circumstances
I couldn't control was the weak thing to do.
“If she'd been listening to something else on the radio.
If she'd looked up a second earlier. If she hadn't been going
so fast!” I yell. I keep going. “If she and Perry hadn't
broken up. If they had never dated. If Perry had been at the
party. If she had just waited until the next day, or called him
or called you or called me!”
The number of ifs and what-ifs are infinite, and I keep
listing them—trying to convince myself or Dante, or maybe
you, that I'm sorry; that life and death are random; that we
can't control anything except how we deal with it all now—
until Dante stands up too. Because I dreamed about you all
night, and something about hearing you again so clearly
has assured me that this is true: It wasn't my fault or
Dante's or Perry's. Or even yours. Your brother grips my
shoulders so I'll stop, and I do. He swallows hard, then
nods like he gets it.
“All right. Okay.” He wipes my face with his gloved
fingers.
“Don't do it again,” I beg, blinking, and shaking my
head. “We've both done it enough.”
I kneel back down and pull a vanilla-scented candle out
of the snow. I place it in front of his feet. I wrap my arms
around my knees and just stare at everything else. He
walks over to the railing and looks down at the road that
runs below the one we're standing on.
“She landed down there,” he says softly. I barely hear
him. The sun's just starting to set, so his shiny black hair is
reflecting the light at an angle that makes it look almost
white on top. The snow looks orange and pink and yellow.
And the sky is every color in between. I stand up to look
over the edge with him.
I'm holding the small stuffed dog in my hand. The ears
are black and the body is white, and he's holding a tiny red
heart that says I MISS YOU. There's no name and no card, but
I just assume it's from Perry. Both of you were obsessed
with beagles, and the dog kind of looks like Snoopy. I look
over at the wooded area on either side of the empty road. It
looks so ominous in this light, and I know that this was
what you saw when you broke through the guardrail.
You must have been so scared.
“I wish she died right away, you know? That I could
know for sure that she didn't know what was happening to
her, that she didn't have time to be afraid,” Dante says, and
it's as if he's reading my mind. He looks straight ahead,
and the failing light makes his eyes shine more than
normal. Or maybe the shine is from the tears, but I can tell
by the set of his jaw that he isn't going to let them fall.
I drop the dog back into the snow. I slip my arm around
his waist and take a deep breath. I'm not used to touching
him like he's mine just yet.
“This place…,” I say. “It almost feels sacred.” Dante
nods.
I reach into his coat pocket. I have a feeling he'll have a
lighter, and he does. I walk back over to the pile of gifts,
looking for the candle. When I find it, I try to light it, and at
first the wick is too wet. But Dante sees what I'm trying to
do, and he dries it with the bottom of his coat.
I set the candle atop a small mountain of snow, and
after a few tries, the flame catches. It flickers and moves a
bit as small breezes try to blow it out, but we block the
wind with our bodies and stare at it in a weird kind of
reverence.
Dante keeps watching it burn while I read the rest of
your cards and look at the photos and arrange the flowers
in a way I know you would have liked. And when I blow out
the candle, my eyes are stinging, but I feel more hopeful
than I have in weeks.
“Maybe I can drive us home,” I say, looking up at your
brother. His eyes are wet, too.
Dante puts his arm around my shoulders and kisses my
temple. He presses his nose deep into my hair, and it feels
like the most natural thing in the world.
“Yeah,” he says. “Sure.”
But we don't leave until it's almost completely dark.
BRAM IS BORED so he sees how long he can hold his
breath.
1,017 views | 9 months ago
“Aden and Nico found a singer for their band,” I say to
Gertrude.
“Anyone you know?” she asks.
“No, thank God. Some girl from Aden's school. Her
name's Constance Lo, and get this, she goes by Lo.”
Gertrude laughs. “So it's like you're still there, kind of.”
“Only if Aden calls her L and Nico calls her Logo. I just
take it as a sign that they miss me,” I say.
“Who wouldn't?” Gertrude agrees.
I clear my throat. I study my reflection in the mirror
behind her head. My hair is sticking up all over, now that
it's all grown out, but I still look better than I have in
months. There are no dark shadows under my eyes, and
there's a bit of color in my cheeks. I've actually been
sleeping, and it shows.
Gertrude gets a little more serious all of a sudden. “So
you seem like you're feeling a little better about things.”
I nod.
“How are you feeling about Bram?”
I shrug. “Aden said I was still in love with him.”
“What do you think?”
I shrug again. “He was just my ex,” I say, but even I
don't believe those words.
“I think he was a little more than just that,” Gertrude
says.
She's right. Bram was an arrogant bastard with a
gorgeous smile, a big heart, and a loud laugh. He was a
jock and a hopeless romantic and everything in between.
He was kind of an ass sometimes, but unbelievably sweet
when you least expected it. But that was just Bram. Moody,
goofy, brilliant, beautiful Bram.
I loved him.
I still love him.
“Yeah,” I say, and when I look up, Gertrude's face is
wide open. “Trudy,” I say, and she rolls her eyes a little, but
she smiles. “I guess I'm ready to tell you about him now.”
I stand up and walk to the window. Gertrude turns to a
new page in her notebook.
We both take deep breaths, and I begin.
“When Bram and I broke up, I told him I hoped he'd die
alone. And when it really happened, I didn't want it to be
true—that he was dead, that he'd died all alone. I regret
what I said, and I never told him I was sorry. And now I
know it doesn't matter how or why he's gone. Just that he
is, and I have to figure out a way to be okay with it or I'm
gonna ruin everything good in my life, if I haven't already.”
All the drinking, all the smoking. Skipping school all
the time and lying to everyone. I lost another band, my
parents are pissed, and my grades are shit.
I need to fix everything, but I don't know how.
“I know what I don't want to do anymore,” I tell her as
tears start to burn my eyes. “But I don't know what to do
instead.”
Gertrude lets out a deep breath, like she'd been holding
it since I first came to see her nearly five weeks ago.
“Logan,” she says, pressing her lips together. “Thank
you for trusting me enough to tell me that.”
It's not at all what I was expecting her to say. It catches
me totally off guard and kind of makes my throat feel
tighter than it already was.
I nod.
“I know these last few weeks have been difficult, but
you've been doing great work. Grief is tricky. But we can
figure it out with a little bit of patience and a lot more of
what you so generously just offered to me.”
I must look confused, because Gertrude says,
“Honesty.” Then she grins a little. I smile back.
I talk about Bram for the next forty minutes. I don't talk
about the mess he'd gotten himself into or any of my crazy
detective work. I don't even mention the sex tape. I just
talk about Bram the person. I tell Gertrude about how he
used to cross his eyes at me from across the room at
parties or if we were in detention together, how he'd
always bring a Cherry Coke to our tutoring sessions. I tell
her about how great he looked in the tights that were a
part of his football uniform and that sometimes he'd wear
them around his apartment when I came over, just because
he knew I liked them. I tell her about how he named my
band.
And she listens. Sometimes she smiles, and other times
she writes things down. But mostly she just watches me.
She asks me questions, and when I answer them…I know it
sounds stupid, but it feels like she holds each truth I give to
her in the palm of her hand.
“I've been writing songs again,” I tell her. “I just hope I
don't always need something super dramatic to happen to
write. That would suck.”
Gertrude looks thoughtful, and I can't tell if she's going
to drop a truth bomb or push me to say more.
“Maybe it's not the trauma that sparks your creativity,”
she says after a moment.
Truth bomb it is, then.
“Maybe,” she continues, “it's you speaking your truth.
Remember how you told me once that secrets were safer?”
I nod.
“Maybe they're more dangerous than you think.”
—
On the bus ride home after my session is over, I push in my
earbuds and queue up a few of the live recordings I have of
Unraveling Lovely playing this teen club, The 715, last
summer. I'd set up my phone on the side of the stage before
every show, so I have hours of us playing, sounding like
fucking badasses, ripping up the stage, as if we owned the
place.
Dante, Rohan, and I had talked about recording an
album after the tour, but post–Battle of the Bands, it never
happened. We were the real thing. We had something
special, and everyone who came to see us thought so.
I turn the music up louder when the song I'm playing
gets to my favorite part. It's a bridge that me and Rohan
wrote together, and even as the critic in me is picking every
single note apart, I close my eyes and sit back. I love the
song that much. It's imperfect, but I want everyone in the
whole world to hear it.
My parents kind of ambush me when I walk into the
house a half hour later. My mom is holding an officiallooking letter in her hand. I can see a seal at the top of the
stationery, but that's about it. Even though my dad has his
arms crossed, it still looks like he's seconds from ripping
my head off.
“Can you explain yourself, young man?” my dad asks
before I even take my coat off. He only calls me young man
when he's “really disappointed” in me or when he knows I
don't have a legitimate excuse for whatever I've fucked up.
“Um,” I say. I don't even know what they're mad about.
I've been such a shit show lately; it could be anything.
Then it's Mom's turn. “Logan, we know you're better
than this,” she says. That's when she hands me the letter
she's holding.
It's from school. It says that as of last week, I'm
officially on academic probation. Luckily, I had a strong
first semester, and that's keeping me afloat. But if my
grades drop any more between now and finals, I can kiss
graduation goodbye.
“Shit,” I say.
“Logan, language,” my mom says at the same time as
my dad says, “ ‘Shit' is right.”
“I can try to ask for extra credit. There's only two
classes where I need to bring my grade up,” I lie. I try to
remember the last time I did homework for any of my
classes, and then I remember what I decided before I left
Gertrude's office—to stop lying. To stop keeping secrets.
“That's actually not really true,” I say. “I probably need
to ask all my teachers if there's anything I can do to help
my grades. And…there might not be enough.” I look at the
letter. I'm even flunking phys ed, though I feel like I have a
legit excuse for that one.
My mom looks like she's gonna cry, and God, I fucking
hate the look on her face.
“If I totally screwed myself over, I'll go to summer
school. I never really wanted to go to college anyway,” I tell
her. Then she actually does start crying. She turns and
presses her face into my dad's chest. I look at him, like Can
I go? He nods and gives me a face, like We'll discuss this
later. I'm grateful.
Before the letter, my head had been full of memories of
Dante and Rohan, so it's weird when I get to my room, flip
my laptop open, and see a message sitting in my inbox from
our old band manager, Shay.
She says Rohan has a new band that isn't nearly as
good as Unraveling Lovely. She says she wants to surprise
him and get us all back together at least for one night.
Dante has already told her he's in. Then she proceeds to
tell me I owe her, I owe all of them, and she isn't wrong.
The last line of the message says, I don't know what was
going on with you that made you do what you did, but
knowing you, it wasn't just nothing. You don't have to tell
me what it was, but we can't make this show happen
without you. Something about that line is what makes me
want to do it. Considering that Undying Light is moving
forward without me, I'm feeling pretty expendable at the
moment. Her message makes me feel wanted; necessary.
And that's exactly what a cocky dick like me needs to feel.
She signs the message:
Don't be a dick,
Shay
And I remember what it was like taking orders from a
bossy sophomore while we were on tour. I grin.
I look at the letter from school basically telling me I'm
a total fuck-up, which, if I'm being honest, I already knew.
Then I look at Shay's note telling me I'm a fucking rock star
(I mean, that's basically what she's saying). I know I have
to deal with both, but it's easy to know which to respond to
first.
BAMF // SASHA'S SENSES REVIEW…UNRAVELING
LOVELY
Looks like: falling apart
Smells like: teen spirit (duh)
Sounds like: every band you've fallen in love with and
nothing you've ever heard before
Tastes like: bittersweet symphonies
Feels like: being put back together again
5/5
Logan Lovelace, Feb. 8, 11:59 p.m.
Shay,
It's so crazy that I got your message today. Funny thing is, I
hadn't written much for a while, but lately, something is
different. I wrote three songs yesterday. Lol. So would I be
down to meet up with Dante and Rohan? Absolutely. I'm
more worried they won't want to see me. I know I owe
them an apology. I owe you one, too.
L
That's what is waiting for me when I open my laptop a few
days after sending Logan the message about the reunion
show. I was pretty sure he wasn't going to respond at all.
“Yes, yes, yes!” I yell out loud. I pump my fists into the
air. I text Callie to see if she found out what spring dates
The 715 has available for the reunion show.
Then I call Deedee to make sure Rohan is still in the
dark.
I send a group text to Dante and Logan, asking them if
they're free around seven. By noon, I've heard back from
both of them, and they can make it. So I send them the
details about when and where they should meet me. A few
minutes later, they both agree.
I'm ecstatic, and I'm dying to tell someone. I can't tell
Rohan because the surprise is for him, and Callie and
Deedee already know. I text Jerome, but I know he'll
probably just text me back with “Ok” or “Cool”—he won't
give me the enthusiasm I need. So I walk to Mom's
bedroom and knock on the door.
“Come in,” she says. When I open the door, Mom is
sitting in the middle of her bed, her laptop open, her cell
phone vibrating, and a planner and a few pens all around
her.
“Oh, sorry,” I say. I'm kinda sad that Mom is working on
a Saturday morning when she promised she was going to
try to work less, but at least she's home instead of at the
office. I guess a drastic change like that doesn't happen
overnight. I start closing the door again.
“No, Shay, come in,” Mom insists. “I was just—” She
flaps her hand, dismissing all the stuff around her. “It's not
important. Come here.” Mom pats the bed beside her.
And I can't help it. I dive onto the bed, Mom laughs,
and I tell her all about Unraveling Lovely and my brilliant
surprise for Rohan.
—
I get to The 715 right before the show starts. Our
Numbered Days is performing first. I'd wanted to get here
early, but Mom took forever doing my hair. I'm rocking a
few thick cornrows in front and an afro in back, a hairstyle
I've only ever let Sasha do for me. It makes me feel closer
to her, even though it was Mom's fingers knitting together
my bushy hair instead of my sister's. I still can't believe I
actually asked Mom for her help.
I maneuver through the dense crowd to the table I
asked Rohan to reserve for me—it's right up against the left
corner of the stage. There's a bigger band playing tonight
after Our Numbered Days, so the place is exceptionally full.
When I finally push past the last human wall surrounding
the place where my table should be, I see Callie and
Deedee waving. Then I notice Logan's red hair around the
same time as I spot Dante's mop of black.
“You guys made it!” I shout, reaching out and pulling
Dante in for a hug.
I look at Logan, and he says, “Look, I know I'm a dick,
but the music is about to start so I'll make this quick. I
fucked up at Battle of the Bands. I'd just broken up with my
boyfriend, and I couldn't deal. I'm not trying to make
excuses—there are no excuses. I just want you to know
what was going on with me. Anyway, I'm sorry. And…I'm
sorry about Sasha.”
He says this in a rush, and I cock my eyebrow at him,
but I get it. I reach out to hug him, like I'd planned to do all
along. “I forgive you, I guess,” I say, and he squeezes me
even tighter. “You're still a dick, though.”
“I know,” he says.
“Hi, Autumn,” I say, hugging her next. And I notice
Dante looking at her, like she's a secret he doesn't want to
share.
When Our Numbered Days takes the stage, I yell the
way I normally would. But a part of my heart stays at the
table, where two-thirds of the band I really love is sitting.
I know the exact moment when Rohan spots us in the
crowd. He's in the middle of the first song, and he glances
our way. He frowns a little, like he can't quite make us out,
which he probably can't with the bright lights and the
crowd. But as the song ends and the spotlight swivels away
from him, he looks in our direction again, and his eyes get
two times wider.
Holy crap, he mouths. Holy crap.
I tap Dante and Logan on the shoulders to make sure
they see Rohan seeing them together for the first time in
way too long.
Forty-five minutes later, Rohan climbs offstage and
pushes his way through to us.
“What are you guys doing here…together?” he shouts
so we can hear him over the house music that's playing
while the next band gets set up. He grabs Dante's hand and
slaps his back in an embrace. He hesitates with Logan until
he leans toward Rohan and whispers what I assume is an
apology in his ear.
“Shay messaged us,” Dante says. “Says you were
thinking about giving Unraveling Lovely another chance.”
“Although,” Logan adds, “Our Numbered Days isn't half
bad.”
Rohan grins and then turns to me like I'm a lighthouse
and he's lost at sea.
“You did this?” he asks, and I nod. “Why?”
I want to tell him that it's an apology for how I've been
running away from him and everyone else. And that it's a
thank-you for the intervention; for always being there for
me, even when I made it hard for him. But it's more than
that, too.
“I guess I just wanted my old job back,” I say. “Really,
really badly.”
He laughs. “Thank you,” he says. “Seriously, I don't
even know what to say.” I try to look away, but he won't let
me.
“Ro, it's cool. I mean, I want to go to another UL show
probably as much as you want to play another one. Plus,
you know Sasha would love it.” I grip his shoulders, and
before I can say anything else, he lifts me up off the floor,
and I scream until he puts me down.
“So,” he says when my feet are planted on the floor
again. “You guys want to come over or what?”
“Duh,” Dante says.
As we head out to the parking lot, I'm right beside
Logan.
“What kind of songs have you been writing?” I ask.
He pushes the door open with one hand and squints
into the dark, like he's thinking. The sun went down hours
ago, but the stars still haven't shown up.
“I've written, I shit you not, twelve songs in the last
week, after a pretty long dry spell. So, to be honest, it's a
little bit of everything and kind of all over the place.” He
turns around to look for Rohan, and he's right behind us.
“They're probably total trash. But I'd love to pick that
dude's brain and see if he thinks they're any good.”
In Rohan's dim garage, Logan unrolls the notebook
that's been peeking out of his back pocket all night, and he
and Rohan huddle together looking through the pages of
scribbled writing, like they're sacred scripture. Dante and
Autumn flip over a few buckets they find in a corner, and
then Dante gets a pair of drumsticks from his car. He beats
out quiet rhythms while Autumn looks at her phone and
hums along.
Deedee is taking pictures of everything. She has an
idea for an ongoing series for BAMF called Remaking the
Band. Callie just asked me to brainstorm interview
questions to go with Deedee's photos, so we sit down to
work on it.
When Logan and Rohan identify a song they both like,
they go over to Dante, and Autumn joins us on the
sidelines.
“How's he doing?” I ask Autumn, nodding in Dante's
direction. She gives me a slight shrug.
“And you?” I say, remembering that Dante had told me
that Tavia was Autumn's best friend.
“Okay, I guess. As good as can be expected? I don't
know. It was a month on the thirteenth. Seems like it's been
longer. And I guess shorter at the same time.”
I nod.
“It's been four months for me. Since Sasha, I mean.”
Autumn nods. “I was at her memorial. I'm sorry,” she
says really looking at me, and something passes between
us that doesn't really need to be said out loud. It's awful
and lovely at the same time. I don't remember her being at
Sasha's service, but I don't remember much about that day
at all. I touch her shoulder and smile. “Thanks for being
there,” I say.
When Unraveling Lovely's music fills the room a few
minutes later, all the empty space inside me feels a little
less hollow.
FEB. 9, 2:26 P.M.
Everything is different without you here. Especially me.
But I'm starting to think that maybe that's okay.
Tavia may not be on Hangouts right now. She'll see your messages later.
From: HeCalledItAutumn@gmail.com
To: TaviaViolet@gmail.com
Sent: Feb. 10, 6:11 p.m.
Subject: <none>
I'm starting to remember what I was like before, or, I
guess, who I am now without you here. That I love
classical music and sketching people's faces when they
don't know I'm watching. That I'd prefer to stay home and
watch a movie instead of going out to a party. And books.
I'd forgotten all about books.
We go to the library today because Dante needs to study,
and I want to check out a book. I couldn't turn him down
when he said the word “study,” and besides, it's been
almost two months since I've read anything other than your
photo captions and the lyrics to UL songs. I'm leafing
through one of the newer novels, its plastic-wrapped jacket
crinkling under my fingers, when I hear someone whisper
my name.
“Hey, Autumn.”
When I turn around, Perry's there, his dark blond hair
mussed and messy, like someone had just pulled a hat from
his head against his will. His cheeks are dotted with
stubble. He's wearing his glasses, which he almost never
wears, but I can still see his quiet, translucent eyes behind
the lenses, shining like a shallow forest pond. His lacrosse
stick is poking out of his backpack, and he's holding a fat
fantasy novel. It's the first time I've really looked at him
since the day on the beach. He looks like a different person
here, in those glasses, holding that book. I could finally see
the version of him that you loved.
I push the book I'm holding back onto the shelf and run
my finger along the spine of the one beside it so I don't
have to look back at those eyes. So I won't have to endure
the nakedness of his expression again.
“Hey, Perry. How've you been?” I ask, even though I've
been avoiding his sadness, like it's a sickness, especially
since that fight with Dante. Especially since I screamed at
him on the beach. And it's strange making small talk
considering that the last time I saw him, I was yelling in his
face, telling him he's the reason why you're gone.
“Not too good, but okay, I guess.” He slouches his
backpack from his shoulder and drops it on the floor
between us. He leans his head against the shelf right
beside my hand, and he's quiet for a second or two before
he says my name again. I keep staring straight ahead,
reading the spines of the books in front of me like they're
pages instead.
“Autumn. Can you look at me?” His voice sounds dark
and desperate, so I do.
He lets out a long sigh, and his bangs flutter in a way
that makes him seem like a little kid. He looks up at where
a mural of the night sky is painted across the domed
ceiling. I haven't been here in so long that I'd forgotten
about it.
“Tavi would always point out the Big Dipper in here,”
Perry says before he aims those eyes of his back at me. He
smiles and shakes his head. “Or Orion's Belt. When we
were dating, she would pull me into that last aisle, and
we'd lie on the carpet looking up until her giggling got us
kicked out.”
He takes a step so that he's even closer to me. When he
swallows, I can see his Adam's apple bob, and he lowers his
voice a bit more before he speaks again.
“What you said, on the beach…,” he starts, but he trails
off almost right away. The rest of his sentence, his question,
hangs in the air between us, and neither one of us wants to
finish it.
I turn my head back toward the shelves and read a few
of the spines in front of me before looking down at my
shoes. I'm in the W part of the fiction section, and almost
all of Alice Walker's titles remind me of you:
Anything We Love Can Be Saved.
The Color Purple.
Hard Times Require Furious Dancing.
The Way Forward Is with a Broken Heart….
“I shouldn't have said that,” I whisper. Perry flares his
nostrils, so I know he heard me. “I shouldn't have said any
of it.”
“But was it true?” he asks, like my answer can change
something. “Was she really on her way to see me?”
I don't know if it will help him more if I lie or tell the
truth. I look away from him because I know my face will
give it all away.
“Autumn,” he says, his voice too soft to belong to a
lacrosse bro, to the boy who fought Dante. But soft enough
to be the voice of the boy who you loved.
“Yes,” I say. “It's true. She still loved you.”
Perry sticks his hands into his hair, and then he takes
off his glasses. I keep talking.
“She wanted me to come to the party with her to find
you. To tell you that she made a mistake—that she wanted
you to be her boyfriend again. And when you weren't
there…You know how Tavia was. She still had to tell you
that night. So she started driving to your house.”
I don't want to talk about it. I don't even want to think
about it. But Perry is staring at me with his watery, watercolored eyes, and the words just pour out of me under that
ceiling full of stars.
“The day before, she wouldn't stop talking about how
you were going to be at the party. About how we had to go.
I told her I didn't want to, so she went without me.”
The tears fill my eyes so quickly, I barely feel the sting
of them. I know Dante's a few aisles away at a table, and I
ache for him, but I decide to be brave.
“I told you it was your fault, but really, it wasn't. I think
I'm only starting to realize now that blaming you or myself
or Dante—or even Tavia—is only making everything
harder.”
Perry's chin is trembling, his happy-go-lucky attitude
about everything nowhere to be found. I'm hoping he
doesn't cry because I don't know how to comfort him, even
when he's in his wrinkled T-shirt. Even though he's holding
that nerdy book. I suddenly, desperately, need to say out
loud that none of us could have saved you.
Perry puts down his novel. He touches my shoulders
with his big hands, both of them at the same time. And he
says it for me.
“You're right,” he says. “It wasn't anybody's fault.”
When I look up at him, he's smiling a little.
“I know that she was your best friend. And at first, I
wanted to be there for you because I know what it's like to
lose someone and to feel like nobody gets it.”
He squints almost imperceptibly, a ghost from his past
touching the edges of his face. But the look is gone before I
can even be sure that I saw anything.
“But you wouldn't talk to me. And then you wouldn't
stop screaming at me. And, I mean, if you need to yell, you
can yell—everyone deals with this crap differently.”
He swallows, like it's painful, and I know what those
lumps feel like, when you're fighting tears and forcing them
back down your throat. It does kind of hurt.
“But all I ever wanted to tell you was that I get it. I
think about her all the time.”
He looks up at the ceiling again and then takes his
hands off my arms. Then he picks up his book and throws
his backpack over one of his shoulders. He swipes a hand
across his eyes and levels me with a look I can't describe.
“All I ever wanted to say was that I love and miss her
too.”
“I'm so sorry, Perry. She would have been pissed at me
for yelling at you like that.”
He smiles a little more because he knows I'm right.
When we leave the library, Dante takes me back to my
own house for once. I have a pile of books, and I'm eager to
read them, so I shower, even though it's still early. I crawl
into my bed with three of the five books I checked out, and
I start reading.
Right before dinnertime, Willow shows up. No one
knew she was coming home, so my mom is freaking out,
worried that she hasn't cooked enough samgaetang (even
though there's an entire chicken in the pot), and my dad
rushes home from work. But my sister comes straight to my
room.
She places my stack of books on the floor and climbs
into bed with me. She hugs me hard and long, and when
she asks how I'm doing, I lose it. Minutes before, I was fine,
but something about the sweet smell of her skin and the
gentle sound of her voice breaks me. I bawl against her
university sweatshirt until my tears have stained the light
gray in patches that almost look black. And when I calm
down a little, she asks me if I've found anything at all that
helps, and I tell her about all the messages and emails I've
sent to you.
“A, you can't do that forever” is what she says right
away. She picks up my laptop and finds the browser tab
with my email. She looks through the sent folder, and I let
her. Next, she searches my chats and looks at all the
messages there. Then she frowns in my direction, and she
starts crying too.
“Why didn't you tell me things were this bad? I knew
you were hurting, but I could have come home more often.
I could have called to check in every day.”
I clear my throat and walk over to the stereo. I put on
the Unraveling Lovely EP, look back at her, and shrug.
Willow chews the inside of her cheek and stares out my
window. I look too. Two little dark-haired girls are playing
in the cul-de-sac, and they could have been you and me
when we were little.
“You know what you have to do, right?” Willow says.
She'd logged me out while I was putting on the music.
When I go back to my bed, my sister hands me the laptop.
She knows I know your email address and password. And I
know she wants me to delete your email account without
her saying anything else.
“I can't,” I tell her, my throat squeezing, like I'm
allergic to the thought of getting rid of anything related to
you. “I need it.”
Neither of us says anything for a few minutes, and the
music fills the room. I watch the little girls through the
window and pull my sleeves over my hands.
Willow's thinking. I can tell because she's quiet and
still, two things that she normally isn't. She takes my laptop
back, opens a new tab, and creates a new email account: A‐
Willow In Autumn@gmail.com.
I smile a little at the name. When she looks at me, her
eyes are soft and warm and still a little wet. “The next time
you want to talk to Tavia, want to try writing to me
instead?”
I swallow hard and nod slowly. I promise to try. Then I
finally tell Willow I want to go on the trip with her this
summer. She asks my mom for her credit card, and we book
our tickets to London and Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam.
So, I may not be sending any more emails to you.
Earlier today might have been the last time I type your
email address, but I won't let it be the last time I write your
name.
Willow falls asleep in my bed after dinner, but I'm not
tired yet. I rummage around in the basement until I found
some sidewalk chalk; then I walk outside, to the spot where
the little girls were playing earlier. I write “A+T Forever”
on the asphalt and look for Orion's Belt in the dark sky, as if
you're right beside me. I realize then that I haven't listened
to the voice mail you left me in a while, and something
about that makes me feel sad and proud.
I want to call Dante. I want to send you a message. But
I just look at the stars.
BRAM IS BORED so he makes a video channel.
892 views | 10 months ago
Undying Light has been climbing the Battle of the Bands
leaderboard since they found Lo, so I'm wondering if the
girl just had a backlog of a zillion songs. I open my laptop
and listen to their latest one. It's good. It's a little too good.
But practicing with Unraveling Lovely is making me a lot
more gracious about the other UL's success than I would be
otherwise.
I go to Bram's channel with Undying Light's song still
playing in the background in a different tab. I scroll
through all of his uploaded videos until I get to the first one
he ever posted. He looks a little different in the tiny freeze-
frame square; younger than in the more recent videos and
all the photos I've been obsessing over since Christmas—
more fresh-faced and cute, and his hair is longer; curly and
flopping in his face. I pause the song, then press play on
Bram's video.
“Heeeeeeeeyyyy,” Bram says. He's really close to the
camera, so the whole screen is his face, and then he backs
up a little and grins.
“So here's the deal. I'm Bram. And I'm always so damn
bored. So I thought I'd make a video channel. Why would
anyone want to watch you? you might be asking yourself.
Or I guess I'm asking myself that. And I don't really know
the answer. But I like doing stupid stuff, and people love
stupid stuff, so I thought I'd marry my love of attention with
your love of giving me attention. Or something…I guess.
Anyway, this is video numero uno. The next one will be
much more exciting. I SWEAR. 'Kay. Cool. Bye.”
The video is super boring. But it's his face and his
voice, so I could watch it for hours. I don't, though. I only
watch it one more time because there's something
important I have to do today.
I lace up my shoes, and my eyes are instantly wet
because it hits me that I'm going to Bram's grave. Gertrude
and I planned this little field trip during my last session,
and even though I'm not supposed to go alone, I don't
really want to go with Yara or Nico. I don't want to ask my
parents. And I don't want to put it off any longer.
The sky is overcast when I step outside, and by the time
I get to the cemetery, it's foggy as hell. I feel like I'm in a
goddamned horror movie with a really uncreative director,
but I'm grateful for the clouds. If it was sunny, that would
feel all wrong.
I didn't come to the cemetery the day they buried
Bram. The funeral was hard enough, and I knew watching
his body disappear would seriously fuck me up. So I
skipped it. I snuck out of the church and away from my
parents. I called Aden and got drunk in his dorm room
while I was still wearing my suit. I lied when he asked why
I was all dressed up.
But I'm here now, and it's creepy as all hell. The fog
isn't helping. I'm going through row after row, looking for
the right plot. I have a folded piece of paper in my hand
instead of flowers.
When I find it, I almost want to laugh. It's a big block of
a stone, smooth and a darker gray than I expected—almost
like modeling clay instead of limestone, or whatever pale
rock is usually used for this kind of thing.
But here's the kicker: it looks like the tombstone from
the Vonnegut book. The cartoon one with the quote across
the front of it. The quote's size is smaller, of course, but the
font looks the same and everything. It's so weird to see it in
real life after seeing it in Bram's room. I shouldn't be
surprised that Ms. Lassiter knew her son that well, but
some part of me is. Parents usually don't know shit.
I stare at it for a few more minutes, reading Bram's
favorite quote, his name, the day he was born. The day he
died. I didn't think I would cry, but I feel that annoying
tightness in my chest anyway. He's gone, and here's the
proof. There's no denying it now.
I clear my throat, even though no one's around and I'm
not about to talk. I walk a little closer to the grave and
reach out my hand. I run my fingers along the top of the
stone, and it's smoother than I expected it to be.
I unfold the paper I've been gripping like mad and try
to smooth it out against my leg.
I wrote a song. I can't bear to be lame and start talking
to the stone, like it's Bram, and I'm sure as hell not singing
or even reading what's on the sheet in front of me. Instead,
I stoop down so that I'm eye to eye with the part of the
quote that says EVERYTHING WAS BEAUTIFUL. There's a pile of
old bouquets at the foot of the stone; some completely
brown, some just starting to lose their color. I don't want to
disturb them too much, but I move the oldest ones to the
side until I can see the ground. I find a few small stones
and use them to pin the paper down. I don't want my words
to blow away.
I think about the poem Yara left on Bram's video a
month or so ago. How pissed I was about it. But now I get
why she did it. There's something about being able to say
things you never had a chance to that feels so damn good.
I touch the stone one more time before I stand up. I pop
the collar of my peacoat because the wind is picking up
again. Maybe it'll rain, and the ink on the paper will bleed
into the ground. It might snow, and my words will be
buried, just like the person I wrote it for. But I guess it
doesn't matter now. I said what I needed to say. I gave it to
the person who needed to have it.
It's all I can do, and even though it will never be
enough, it fucking has to be.
UNBEARABLE
If you'd asked me years ago, “What does love look like?”
I wouldn't have known to say pink lips that spew lies,
green-golden eyes,
and a smile that melts my insides.
If you'd asked me years ago, “What does love sound like?”
I couldn't have described
the tremor and hum,
the almost electric thrum
of your voice making my whole body numb.
If you'd asked me years ago, “What does love feel like?”
I never would have guessed
at our hearts beating,
our chests heaving,
and the unbearable ache of you leaving.
Our hearts beating,
our chests heaving,
and the unbearable ache of you leaving.
If someone asked now,
“What does love look like?”
I'd tell them it was
the lies in your eyes.
If someone asked now,
“What does love sound like?”
I'd tell them it was
your thrum that made me numb.
If someone asked now,
“What does love feel like?”
I'd tell them I don't know.
But my heart's beating.
My chest's heaving.
It's unbearable—you're really leaving.
My heart's beating.
My chest's heaving.
It's unbearable—you're really leaving.
My heart's beating.
My chest's heaving.
I'm not breathing.
And you're gone.
Unraveling Lovely is scheduled to take the stage in just a
few minutes, but Logan still hasn't shown up. Dante is
pacing, banging his drumsticks against his thighs, and
Autumn is looking at her phone, her eyes following only
him whenever she looks up.
Rohan is alternating between tapping his thigh,
retuning his already-tuned guitar, and trying not to look
nervous, but I notice a pile of crumpled wax paper in the
chair beside him. In addition to tapping his leg when he's
anxious, Rohan eats taffy the way other musicians chainsmoke cigarettes, so I know he must be worried about
Logan being MIA.
“This is just like Battle of the Bands,” Rohan says to
Dante, and it makes me want to scream at someone.
“Where the hell is he?” I say loudly, to no one in
particular, hoping he doesn't screw Rohan over. Or Dante.
Or all the people who are already here. It's May, and
they've been practicing for this show since February,
refining their sound—rediscovering their chemistry. Logan
has been like a different person since he showed up at
Rohan's show and made nice with everyone, so if he screws
us over tonight, I don't think any of us will ever forgive him
again.
I poke my head around the edge of the doorway to see
the caffeine-fueled gathering of kids. I think it's even more
crowded now than it was ten minutes ago, and definitely
more crowded than it was ten minutes before that. I don't
know what I've gotten us into, and I have no idea what I'll
do if Logan really doesn't come.
“Can you call him?” I ask Rohan, even though I know
he's freaking out. I hope doing this will distract him from
being so stressed. “I've already sent him a text, and
messages in every app I have on my phone, but he isn't
answering.”
“I guess,” Rohan says, stepping away from me. “He
better show up.”
He turns and heads down the hall that leads to the
backyard, where there's a pretty deck encircled by twinkly
lights, a bunch of tables, and a separate bar. It's so weird
how half of this venue is used for underground bands and
the other half is regularly booked for weddings.
My phone buzzes, and I lift it hoping it's some form of
contact from Logan, but it's just Jerome. I answer because
I've already tried to contact Logan in every way I can think
of, and there's nothing else for me to do now except wait
for him to get here.
“Hey, J, are you here? Because Logan still isn't. Can I
call you back?”
“I need you,” he says. “Come to the stage. I think the
right speaker might be broken.”
“J, what are you talking about? How can the speaker be
broken? They had a show here last night and—”
“Seriously,” he says.
I hang up and open the door again, but this time, I look
at the dark stage instead of the audience. Jerome is on the
opposite side of the stage from me, fiddling with one of the
plugs behind a huge speaker.
“For fuck's sake,” I say. I storm across the stage,
grateful for the darkness, when a spotlight comes on out of
nowhere and shines directly on me. I freeze, wondering if
all the electronics in the place are going haywire.
The audience screams, and they roar even louder when
a second spotlight hits Jerome, who stands up and turns
toward me.
He's wearing his grandfather's red suspenders, but all
the other clothes are his—and he's in a pair of black jeans,
a white T-shirt that says IN LOVING MEMORY OF, and he's
handwritten “GRANDDAD CHARLIE.” Lots of people
tonight are wearing this shirt—we wanted this show to be
for anyone who needed it. My shirt and Rohan's have
Sasha's name. Dante's and Autumn's have Tavia's.
Jerome's holding a stack of giant poster boards, and
just then, the speaker beside him, the same one he claimed
was broken, starts playing “Silent Night.”
“What the actual…?” I say, looking around.
“Hey,” he says. “Just look at me.”
I do. And he proceeds to reenact Keira Knightley and
Andrew Lincoln's last scene from Love Actually in its
entirety.
When he gets to the third cue card, everyone in the
audience has gotten the reference, and girls are cooing
“Aww,” and I'm trying to keep it together. When he gets to
the “To Me, You Are Perfect” card, I literally start crying,
but the next one isn't the line about his wasted heart loving
me forever. The last card says WILL YOU GO TO PROM WITH ME?
Goose bumps march like a tiny army straight up my
spine, and I shiver a little, even though I'm not cold,
because holy crap.
I run across the stage to him. We haven't kissed in
months, but when we collide, I kiss him hard and long, in
front of a hundred screaming strangers.
Rohan walks in with Logan seconds after Jerome and I
push our way through to backstage again. Logan's reddish
hair is wind tossed and wild, like he'd just run a mile to get
here. He unzips his leather jacket and flutters his thick
eyelashes. His diva behavior is annoying, but I'm so happy
he actually showed up that I don't let it bug me. His T-shirt
says IN LOVING MEMORY OF “BRAM.”
“Did I miss the promposal?” he asks, and everyone tells
him he did. “Dammit,” he mutters.
His dark eyes are lined with kohl, so they pop like crazy
looking glassy and bright. They seem to say several things
at once: That he missed his band mates. He missed the
music. He missed it all.
“Well, what are we waiting for?” Logan asks.
“You, idiot,” Dante says. And we all laugh.
Logan grabs Dante by the shoulder and slaps Rohan on
the back. “Let's do this, then, bitches!”
I'm supposed to announce the band, but I'm all
flustered from Jerome's surprise, and I'm not exactly
having a panic attack, but I'm totally unfocused. Plus, I
kinda just want to make out with Jerome. I've missed his
lips. I flail wildly, saying help to Rohan with my eyes and
arms, and he jogs over, guitar in hand.
I point to Jerome. “I'm still a little…shaken up, but you
guys need to be introduced.” I'm actually shaking, so
Rohan believes me.
The crowd starts chanting: “LOVE-LY! LOVE-LY! LOVELY!” and I flail more.
Then Autumn, who I never would have expected to
volunteer for anything involving a stage, and who must
have been watching and listening the way wallflowers
sometimes do, pipes up from her quiet corner of the room.
She says, “Um, I can do it.” Her voice almost matches the
small sound leaves make as they fall from trees.
She pockets her phone and hesitates by the door that
leads to the stage. She looks nervous, but kinda
determined, too. Dante starts toward her, and I have no
idea if he's going to try to stop her or if he's planning to
egg her on, but before he even reaches her, she pushes the
door open and steps out onto the stage. The crowd goes
crazy, probably just because there's more movement at the
front of the venue. I peek through the door, and Autumn
turns back and grins over my head at Dante. She seems to
be taking a few deep breaths before stepping out of the
shadows.
I try to contain the giddiness I feel about the show,
about Jerome, about all the possibilities jumbled up
together in this single moment. I jump up and down in
place, and I kiss Rohan's cheek, wishing him luck, and then
I press my lips against my Sasha tattoo before making sure
Dante has drumsticks and Logan has water and Rohan has
extra guitar strings.
When Autumn first steps into the spotlight, she freezes.
Dante shout-whispers, “Autumn, the mike.” She bends
down slowly and picks it up. A squeal of feedback peals
through the whole club. Autumn cringes and says “sorry”
so far from the microphone that no one but us hears her.
When she steps back up to fit the mike into its stand,
though, she rallies.
“Who's ready to UNRAVEL?” she says into the mike,
and when I look over at Dante, it's like he can't believe it.
His eyes are wide, but he's smiling like crazy in Autumn's
direction.
Everybody screams.
“Who's ready to get LOVELY?” she says next, and the
crowd cheers even louder. I step back from the door and
tell Rohan I'll be back as soon as I can pull myself together.
“I won't miss this,” I say, guessing what he's thinking.
“I swear.”
As I push my way out of the building, pulling Jerome
behind me, I can hear Autumn's soft, amplified voice again.
“You asked for it, you got it. Logan, Dante, and Rohan
are back! Here's Unraveling Lovely!”
I step out onto the deck and I miss my sister. The lights
twinkle in the dark and I miss my sister. I can only hear a
hint of UL's first song—Rohan's first strum of the guitar
ringing out strong and loud, Logan laughing into the mike,
Dante hitting the drum tentatively, once, twice, three times
—as I look up at the darkening sky. I'm so happy, but I still
miss my sister.
I take a deep breath with my eyes closed before I turn
to Jerome. “That was a pretty epic promposal.”
“You liked it?” he asks.
“Yes,” I tell him as my eyes well. “but I miss my sister.”
He doesn't look away from me. He touches my hand. “I
know,” he says.
I lean forward and I kiss him while music I love fills the
cold air all around us. And I think I could love a boy who
makes me feel so okay about being happy and sad at the
same time.
“In case it wasn't clear,” I say, “That yes was to prom,
too.”
He pulls back, smiles big, and says, “Cool.”