SUSAN
This is a story about Susan. Draped permanently on the back of
Susan's chair is a sweater embroidered with birds—that type of lady.
She has this thing I hate, where she's just always medium, room
temperature. Susan looks like a preschool teacher with no emotions.
She smiles, she nods, but she almost never laughs or speaks. That
might be the number one thing I hate about coming here. She won't
even laugh at my jokes! I know that life with me is a ridiculous
hamster wheel of agony, but I'm kind of hilarious, and I'm just trying
to make this whole situation less awkward.
I'm the one who begged for my first session, but I was desperate,
and it was almost my only choice. Now that I'm actually doing this, I
hate it. I just want Susan to buy my usual pitch: I am okay. I am smart
and good. I am regular, and I believe in God, and that means I am
happy.
By the way, of course my therapist's name is Susan. It seems like
everyone I meet, everyone telling me how to be, is a Susan.
I don't trust a Susan, and I don't think they trust me either.
I don't like Susan, but I want to impress her—I'm usually so good
at it.
But this is what I mean about the bird sweater. I know the bird
sweater is awful, and just uncool and unappealing in every way—it
doesn't even look comfortable. But other Susans like it, and generally
all Susans do. It is a sensible piece of clothing; it is normal, and it
makes sense. Wouldn't it be so much easier if I liked the sweater, if I
just wore the fucking sweater and didn't make such a big deal out of
everything?
THIS IS A STORY ABOUT ME
This is a story about me, and I am the hero of it. It opens with a superemo shot of a five-foot-nothing seventeen-year-old black girl—me—in
the waiting room at my therapist's office, a place that I hate. It's so
bright outside it's neon, and of course the soundtrack is Yankee Hotel
Foxtrot by Wilco, because I have more feelings than anyone knows
what to do with.
The smell in here is unlike any other smell in the world, some rare
concoction of pumpkin pie–scented candles and every single perfume
sample from the first floor of Macy's. I bet Susan Brady LCSW
decorates her house with Thomas Kinkade paintings and those little
figurines, cherubs dressed up for various occupations, I don't know.
The other thing I hate about coming here is the random framed photo
of, I believe, Bon Jovi on the coffee table, which also features a wide
assortment of the corniest magazines of all time.
(White people love Bon Jovi. When Marissa and I went to Lake
Havasu with Kelly Kline, because that's what white people do here in
the summer, Bon Jovi was the only thing her family listened to—that
freaking scratched-up CD was actually stuck inside the thing on their
boat. I had a moderate time at “the Lake,” except for when I had to
explain my summer braids to Kelly and Marissa, for probably the eight
hundredth time, to justify why I didn't have a hairbrush to sing into.
They made me sing into a chicken leg because of course. I was also
shamed for not knowing any Bon Jovi lyrics. That was around this
time last summer, but it feels like a past life.)
(Another thing I hate about coming here is how I have to think
about everything I've lost, everything I've done wrong, and everything
I hate about being alive.)
The thing I like about it here is that there's Werther's.
Susan opens the door and spreads her arms to me in a weird Jesus
way, the sleeves of her flowy paisley peasant top billowing at her sides.
She has kind of a White Auntie thing going on, or a lady-who-sellsbirdhouses-at-the-church-craft-fair thing: a sad squinty smile, a dull
brown bob, a gentle cadence to her voice. I can tell she's used to
talking to children—probably rich white children—and as I stiffly
arrange myself on the couch in her office, I'm suddenly self-conscious
about my largeness, my badness. I just feel so obvious all the time.
It's like that song “Too Alive” by the Breeders. I feel every little
thing, way more than regular people do.
“So, how are you doing today?” Susan asks too cheerily, like a
hostess at Olive Garden or something. “Where are you on the scale
we've been using?”
(I feel so deeply it agonizes me.)
“I'm okay. I guess on the scale I'm probably ‘pretty dang bad,' but
better than yesterday and still not ‘scary bad.' ”
(Now, probably to the soundtrack of Belle and Sebastian's “Get Me
Away from Here, I'm Dying,” there's a longish montage of me zoning
out, imagining the lives of everyone I know. Even in my dreams, it's so
easy and fun for them to exist.)
“Are you still taking the art class?”
“Yeah. Every Tuesday.”
“That's wonderful. And how are you liking it?”
“It's fine. Sort of boring, but…I guess it takes my mind off things.”
“Do you want to talk about what's on your mind the other times?”
“Um, not really,” I chuckle, in my best joking-with-adults voice.
The AC churns menacingly, like it always does, taunting me. Susan,
with her wrinkled white cleavage, unmoving and unrelenting. Susan
doesn't play.
I think about grabbing a Werther's from the crystal bowl but don't,
even though I want one. (Will Susan write Loudly sucks on Werther's
in my file as soon as I leave, right next to Is probably fine; just being
dramatic?)
“I guess just people at school. Why I'm so different.”
“Can you say a little more about that? What are the things that
make you feel so different?”
“I don't know.” My chest is welling up with everything I've been
trying to stuff into my mind's closet. “I can't get happy.”
It happened only three weeks ago, but since my “episode,” no one
in my family has uttered the word suicidal. It's easier not to.
I glance down at my Chucks, trying to divert my eyes from Susan.
Stare at a lamp, the books stacked on her shelves. I spot a spine that
reads Healing, Recovery, and Growth, and immediately feel
ridiculous. Sweat pools in my bra. This isn't gonna work.
“Morgan, why are you so angry with yourself?”
I clench my jaw. “I'm not!” This is a lie, but it hasn't always been.
“I'm annoyed,” I admit, sighing, “and embarrassed.”
“Why are you embarrassed?”
“Just—I don't know…,” I whine. Words begin to spill and spew
from my lungs like a power ballad. “Like, why am I the only one I
know who has to go to a shrink? How did I become the crazy one? I
have to be the first one in the history of our family and our school to go
to therapy?” I bristle. “I'm pissed I can't just get over stuff the way
everyone else seems to.”
I purse my lips resolutely and fold my arms tight against my
boobs. Your ball, Susan. She just nods and squints like she has no clue
what to do with me.
I've asked God and Jesus and all their other relatives to “wash
away my sins,” but it doesn't feel like Jesus is living inside me—I can't
even imagine what that would feel like. I'm so full up with me, me,
stupid me.
“Mmm…,” she finally grunts. “I see.”
Fighting the near-constant urge to roll my eyes all the way to the
back of my skull, I snatch up and devour a Werther's.
A little buzzer goes off on Susan's desk, and she clears her throat.
Time for her little closing statement, usually some sentimental crap
that clears up nothing for me.
“I know you're worried about school”—I lean forward to disagree,
but Susan puts up a stubby hand and continues—“but maybe you'll be
surprised. In the next few weeks, I'd like you to write everything down,
exactly as you see and experience it.”
Only Susan could make writing in a journal sound so boring and
corny. I roll my eyes on the inside, but I nod dutifully.
“Well, we have to stop,” Susan sighs, and I feel every atom in my
body exhale.
Before I leave, she gives me a book by someone named SARK on
how to “free the creative spirit” and instructs me to practice my
breathing and meditation every day. I am heavy with dread just
hearing the words. I thank her (for what?) and shuffle to the parking
lot of the office park, where my mom is waiting in her black Mercedes.
She grins theatrically when she sees me. Much too peppy for my
mood, she tosses her James Patterson novel into the backseat and
turns on the engine. “How was it?”
The afternoon sun is offensive. As usual. Too damn bright. I lean
my forehead against the car window and survey the place where I live:
tan stucco as far as the eye can see; dirty cars parked in front of a
Denny's; a Stater Bros. parking lot bustling with Susans; a billboard
asking Where Will You Spend Eternity? I don't know why, but it feels
significant.
“It was okay,” I say wearily.
And nothing else the entire ride home.
The Diaries of Morgan Parker
August 10, 2008
I am in THERAPY. And in honor of such an occasion, I am
starting a new journal. And, yes, I am writing in crayon because
I still like crayons, so there.
Summer is gone. I've spent it fighting with everyone around me and
crying in bed all day. I'm so pathetic. I keep thinking, I wish I
didn't do this. But it's like I can't help it. Because of my
depression.
I have this same dream over and over, that I'm driving on the 10.
I recognize landmarks: the theme park where I flipped out and
ruined Marissa's birthday, the strip club billboard with that
senior cheerleader who supposedly overdosed on pills in the girls'
bathroom and then got kicked out right before graduation. I'm
driving up on the side of a mountain, but I can't turn the wheel,
I can't slow down, and I'm just about to crash, but instead, in
the next dream, I'm in the orange groves. They're on fire.
Suddenly a storm cloud covers everything. I hear thunder, but no
rain ever comes.
As soon as I wake up I have a bad attitude. It's how I know I'm
alive, again.
THE BLUE ALBUM
At an hour that is completely unholy, my mom bursts into my room—
my precious hideaway—carrying the force of a hundred black moms,
all armed with inexplicable Saturday-morning energy, gospel music,
and cleaning supplies.
I'm barely awake and already steeping in despair. (There isn't
anything worse than the moment, the Ughhh, shortly after waking up,
when you realize everything is where you left it.) I roll over and groan.
“I know you don't want to go, Morgan,” my mom speaks down to
the me-shaped floral sheets. She clears yesterday's untouched coffee
from my nightstand and replaces it with a hot one, then sets off
scooting around in her UGGs, humming to Kirk Franklin and coating
everything in Pledge or Windex.
“You need to get out of the house. I'm not doing this with you
today, Morgan.” She pauses at the foot of my bed and huffs loudly
until I peel the sheet from my top half.
“Mom, I won't be any good out there. I just can't handle it.”
My whole summer vacation has basically been a bad performanceart loop of me “causing a scene” or “having a fit” at barbecues all over
town. Even my birthday dinner in June, at our family's favorite
Newport Beach pizza place, ended in tears and screaming and folded
arms: me in the backseat on the drive home, invisible to my parents
and my brother, stewing in shame and OK Computer. Everywhere I
go, I am an embarrassment.
Balancing the coffee cup and an empty ice cream pint in one arm,
my mom raises the blinds, letting in the brightness. I squint and
grimace; I hate how the sun exposes my darkness.
“I'm trying, Morgan.” It always seems to be about someone else—
what I'm doing to other people, instead of what's happening to me.
“I'm trying!”
“Trying to do what?” I shriek.
“To deal with this.” Because of an overactive thyroid, my mom's
eyes bulge when she talks. It pisses me off.
“Then stop yelling at me! Mom, I can't control this.”
I know that I can make it, Kirk Franklin and his gospel choir sing.
I know that I can stand.
“I know,” she relents, scripted. There's more frustration than
sympathy in her voice. I hate that I'm the kind of person people have
to “try” to be around.
It's a whole thing; we both start tearing up for no good reason.
She offers to flat-iron my hair for the party, a veiled bonding
attempt and a backhanded remark about my “presentableness,” so I
begin the grueling mental process of preparing to drag myself out of
bed and into the world.
“I'm just scared,” I say too loudly as she's leaving the room. “It's
scary for me.”
She nods gravely with her lips closed. We're both very dramatic
people.
—
Sitting at my mom's vanity, I stare brutally at my face in the mirror. I
guess I'll always have this face, which is super annoying. The prospect
of carrying this body around day after day makes me want to crawl
right back into my little womb of woe and just shut everything out.
However, today I'm going to Meg's tea party because my therapist
and my mom are making me. When Meg Sloane called to invite me, I
was actually shocked—I haven't been to one of her birthdays since
back when we had to include everyone from class.
My head jerks with each stroke of the hot comb as my mom
brushes and flat-irons my hair into submission. Apparently, I am
tender-headed, which is a black thing. My hair is such a thing. To
distract myself, I pull up some videos of the Get Up Kids on my laptop.
In the mirror I see my mom wince and suck her teeth.
“What are these white boys so upset about? This whining is…really
extreme.”
“It's called emo.”
“It's sort of irritating, isn't it?” She laughs, and it's not a ha-ha
laugh. It's some kind of mom code I can't understand.
“It's not just music, Mom. It's a style. It's a way of life.”
I know it sounds dumb, but whatever, it's true.
“I guess I just don't understand what's so cool about being sad.”
This is a very popular sentiment at home, at school, in my whole
tiny world. Every bad mood is temporary, just waiting to be overcome.
I've always been told that the solution to all problems is prayer and
serving others. If you are holy, you are happy. I guess I'm just not good
enough.
(Now that I know what depression is, it's glaringly obvious that
I've been depressed for years, maybe since birth. I've always been
wrong like this. For example, I've been banned from having a slumber
party since I had my first and only birthday sleepover at age ten and
was so aggravated that I screamed at everyone there and tried pulling
my hair out. My parents always say I “threw a fit,” but it sounds like
the way Susan describes anxiety.)
(Later, when my friends made fun of me about it, I pretended to
laugh it off with them. I did the same when it happened on a school
trip to Six Flags. And there were all those times at the crowded mall in
Riverside when I “had a fit” on the benches outside the Body Shop
because I thought I couldn't breathe—panic attacks.)
Of course my mom doesn't understand being emo. She still asks
me every year if I'm going to try out for cheer, and she's so unsubtly
horrified by all my outfit choices. She can't hide anything in her face,
her over-the-top expressions. Dad, Malcolm, and I have started to
retort, “You didn't need to,” when she cries, “I didn't say anything!”
It's sort of funny because it's so blatant, but mostly it's frustrating. I
wish she would just say how she feels about stuff, what she really
thinks—otherwise, why do I have to?
In high school, she was a cheerleader when she met my dad, a
football player at a rival school. In college she pledged a black sorority.
She always had a boyfriend. She's trendy, at least in her mom way,
wearing low Converses and Banana Republic sweater dusters over my
brother's jersey for game days. She makes sure the house is always
cute, spotless. The mainstream works for her. And then she gets a
daughter like me.
—
The best way for me to describe our little Southern California town is
“nothing surrounded by something.” Mountains, Disneylands,
Hollywoods, Laguna Beaches, casinos, Palm Springs hotels: we have it
all. We have all of it only forty-five minutes away. Our town is known
for its oranges; for 0.8 miles of Route 66; for its abundance of
conservative churches and their simple, kind congregations. The
houses line up in clean rows. Front yards are neat green squares, SUVs
and raised trucks piously adorned with Jesus fish emblems and
Republican party stickers. The sun is involved in every day, pressing
on spotless sidewalks, the tops of shiny cars. Eyes glaze over with
tracts of artificial grass. Shit is extremely pleasant.
I hate it here.
After only one and a half dreamy, grungy songs from Pavement's
Slanted and Enchanted, I arrive at Meg's mom's address. As I park I
have a faint sense of having been to the house before, but I could be
wrong. (In our landscape, things are like sitcom reruns, people and
events repeating, all more of the same.)
My outfit is: a striped polo shirt from the boys' section of Goodwill,
cutoff jean shorts, and (just because) a pair of red kitten heels left over
from my fifties housewife phase. (No “Is that what you're wearing?”
from Mom—a distinct Bummer Summer perk.) Making my way up the
driveway, I wipe nervous sweat from my neck and tug at my cutoffs.
A little blond girl with a large forehead, maybe seven, greets me at
the door before I even knock. She wears only a one-piece swimsuit, her
stringy hair dripping wet all over the entryway tile. I panic—I didn't
know this was a pool thing.
“Who are you?” Her neck snaps back as if on a pulley.
“I'm here for the— I'm here for Meg.” She stares blankly.
“Morgan,” I point to my chest like a caveperson.
If I have been here, it was years ago, before Meg's parents split up
—this is my first encounter with the result of Liz Sloane's remarriage
to a much younger, Scandinavian-looking guy.
“Okay,” she says, smiling creepily with gummy cheeks. Disclaimer:
I really do not like children. I'm a little bit afraid of them. Malcolm's
only two years younger than me (sometimes we even say we're twins),
so I can't imagine living with such a small, foreign thing. I don't even
babysit—I wouldn't know what the hell to do.
The girl makes no attempt to hide her gaze, which starts at the top
of my head and slowly moves down to my feet. Her verdict: “You're
brown. I like your shoes.”
I laugh, my first instinct. But I feel hella awkward. I mean, the kid
is just stating the obvious. That I am brown and have awesome shoes
on are two true things about me.
(So what's this feeling, like dark, inky water suddenly rising
around me?)
My mouth hangs open and I finally blink, noticing that Meg has
appeared in the doorway.
“Geez, let her get through the door first, girl,” Meg says. She lifts
up the little freak with one arm like a grocery bag and drags me by the
other hand into the foyer. Muscles bulge like clementines under the
pale skin of her sticklike arms.
“This is Jessie,” she says offhandedly as the girl wriggles from her
clutch and bounces away. Meg flings up her free hands flippantly. “So,
welcome to the party and all that good stuff.”
Every wall is adorned with yearly coordinated-outfit mall portraits
of their entire blended family and school pictures of Meg, Jessie, and
Meg's older brother, Ryan. A ceiling fan hums in the sunken family
room. It smells like any other white person's house: a little musty
maybe, like the past, and also like Sea Breeze Yankee Candles.
“Sorry I, uh, didn't know it was a pool thing.”
“It isn't,” Meg laughs. She's wearing baseball sleeves under faded
overall shorts, and a White Stripes pin. It is a very good outfit. “Wanna
come sit outside?”
“Sure.” I present her gift. My mom bought it, as if I'm in first grade
or something. It's some lotions from Bath & Body Works that Meg will
almost certainly never use.
“Thanks,” she says a little uneasily. “Listen, I'm sorry about what
my sister said back there—”
“Oh! Don't worry about it!” Her “sorry” is my cue to immediately
shake my head and wave it off. Knee-jerk polite black friend.
“She didn't mean anything by it. I just don't want you to be
offended.”
“Oh yeah, totally. No way.”
“Cool.” Meg nods, genuinely smiling. “Anyway, I'm glad you're
here. James and I are trying to settle an argument.”
Out on the patio, James is sitting with Kelly Kline, freshly initiated
to varsity cheer, and eternal student council president since eighth
grade. (Who could deny her the title? She seriously takes pleasure in
planning stuff, in like a scary way. I did a group project with her on
The Outsiders for eighth-grade English, and she made like a million
useless spreadsheets for the whole team.) Kelly is everyone's friend.
There's nothing to really hate on her about. She's careful like that.
James and Kelly are sipping from teacups, pinkies out. On the
table is a full tea set, doilies and tiny sandwiches and a cupcake stand.
Meg's chair is decorated with feather boas, like she's a bride-to-be.
Someone's iPod Shuffle deejays; it sounds like the Mountain Goats are
playing.
“Help yourself,” Meg says, pointing to a pair of empty plastic
chairs. I weirdly panic, then sit next to Kelly, start to panic about
—chill.
I ask about their summers, and they all say “boring” at the same
time.
“Yeah, me too.”
“Okay, so, Morgan”—James turns to me and returns his cup to its
saucer—“yours will be the tie-breaking opinion.”
Kelly throws back her dirty-blond curls. “Are we still talking about
this? Morgan, ignore them. Did you hear the new Weezer?”
“Kelly, we heard the Weezer, we talked about the Weezer, the
Weezer is bad. I'm sorry, but it is just no Green Album and doesn't
even begin to touch the Blue Album. Anyway, the question of the
day”—he narrows his eyes at Kelly—“which you very rudely did not
answer, is: would you rather be raptured before losing your V-card, or
do it with any musician living or dead BUT get left behind AND
become Kirk Cameron from the Left Behind movie.”
“Wait, why do I have to be Kirk Cameron? That's so random.” I
smirk at the absurdity.
“It is! It is ridiculously random, and that is why it is not a
legitimate would-you-rather.” Meg presses her palms to the table to
restore order.
James slurps his tea and shrugs, self-satisfied. “Just to spice things
up.”
“You guys remind me of Seinfeld,” Kelly blurts, a pitch too high.
“Which episode?” (I have legitimately seen all of them, so I could
coast on this chatter for the entire afternoon if necessary.)
“Um, all of them, kind of.”
I snicker because I cannot help myself, and Meg snorts too.
James stands up for no reason. “Guys, let's do something tonight.”
“Only in Dreams” winds to its crescendo, the last song on Weezer's
Blue Album. The best Weezer, obviously.
“I can't.” Kelly is taking stock of some butterfly clips in her tote
bag. “I'm going to youth group. You guys should come!”
“Why would we want to go to school when there's still a solid two
weeks of summer left?” groans James. “Let's go to the movies.”
“Yes!” Meg chirps. “And cheese fries at Denny's!”
I'm mostly quiet, studying them, letting the conversation swirl
around me. I'm totally overcome with how difficult it is to just, like, be.
In my first therapy session, Susan asked me, “What brings you
pleasure?” and I was horrified that I couldn't answer. Writing in my
journal? Screaming Bright Eyes lyrics in my bedroom? Bette Davis
marathons on Turner Classic Movies? I don't think these are right,
healthy answers. I'm too busy trying to level up to survival to even
consider pleasure.
Anyway, they can't possibly want me to tag along on their weekend
plans.
“Consider it while I visit the loo,” James says with a bow, pushing
in his chair.
“What are you doing tonight, Morgan?” Kelly scoots in. “Wanna
come to youth group?”
“Oh, I'm not sure, I might have to go—”
“Oh my gosh, Morgan, I can't believe I've never asked this! Do you
and your family have a home church?”
This has to be one of my favorite questions from youth pastor
types and other people's moms. The simple script of my Personal Faith
Narrative has been delicately crafted over the years to halt a lot of
annoying conversations. I was baptized Catholic as a baby. I accepted
Jesus into my heart at the age of five. And the magic line: I go to a
black church. That one always shuts them up.
“Oh, awesome. That's great.” Kelly doesn't ask for the name. No
one ever asks for the name. It's not like they would know it, anyway.
(For as much as I'm made to feel like an outsider because of my
race, sometimes I think this is my superpower: watching white
people's comfort and cool slide off their faces when I mention anything
black. How fast they go from peppy and smug to terrified. I don't know
what they're so afraid of.)
I look over at Meg and smile, pressing End on this missionary
interrogation. “What movie are you guys gonna see?”
“No clue. James just wants to flirt with this cute guy who works
there.”
“So,” Kelly inches closer to Meg and lowers her voice, as if James
will hear from the bathroom inside. “Is James, um, seriously gay, or
does he just kind of act like it and go along with it?”
“He hasn't admitted to anything, so who knows. He's just an
attention whore.” She rolls her eyes lovingly.
Kelly laughs, so I chuckle too.
“He's funny,” I say, and they nod. It's all very polite.
“I just thought I'd ask because…well, you know the Bible is very
clear-cut on this issue. And even the law in some states.”
As lifelong Christian-school kids, I know this is our party line, the
approved and agreed-upon message. But it's Saturday, and I wish
Kelly would just turn it off. I didn't grow up believing that gay people
are sinners—we even have some in our family. (Of course, as is our
way, we never talk about it. My cousin Richard's boyfriend is still
referred to as his “friend,” and he's been coming to Christmases for
seven years.)
I genuinely like Kelly, but this sucks. Like, who put this song on?
“But isn't the Bible all about love?” I interject, startling myself.
“You know, basically?”
We've all read the Bible several times during our years at school,
memorized huge chunks of it, acted it out, analyzed it. And this is what
I really believe about the best parts of that book: that it's a book about
love.
(I'm such a nerd that once, sitting with my dad at a black
barbershop filled with old black men, I corrected a “biblical scholar,”
who was getting a haircut, on a Scripture citation. I was like thirteen.)
“Yeah. She's right,” Meg says evenly. “I mean, Jesus was friends
with prostitutes.” She smiles my way, and I get a jolt of confidence.
“Nowadays he would have been pretty radical, actually, if you
think about it,” I blurt, sitting up. “He probably would have voted
Democrat!”
“Um, I don't think so,” Kelly shoots flatly, and purses her lips. Last
year in history, I was outed as our class's only Democrat, because
“most black people are,” according to Mr. K. (Is that true? I have no
freaking idea, but it sounds right.) Still, why the hell did I even go
there?
James steps back onto the patio, humming “Eleanor Rigby.”
“What are we talking about?”
Meg smirks. “Well, Morgan here was just providing the
blasphemous but highly probable theory that—” (My heart stumbles
around on its knees.)
“We were just changing the subject,” Kelly says quickly. She turns
to me, and her face softens. It looks like pity. Like Sarah McLachlan in
those commercials about orphaned puppies.
“No offense, Morgan. I totally respect that your walk with the Lord
is different from mine. Plus, I know you're just kidding.”
“Totally.”
Disappear, I think. Blend in, disappear, disappear, disappear.
Kelly goes on about youth group. Meg sings that Kelly only wants
to go to see her booooyfriend, Adam. Kelly blushes and is like, “Nuhuh!”
I check the time on my phone (as I have been doing every four
minutes or so since I got here, waiting for a moment to easily exit),
and I'm so relieved it's been over an hour.
I “suddenly remember dinner at my aunt's house” and say a
lightning round of goodbyes. It isn't smooth: I do that thing where you
feel super awkward so you try to flee from the situation but that makes
it more awkward. All I can do is fumble my way out of the house and
across the lawn, speed-walk down the street to my car.
Driving home, listening to Ella Fitzgerald & Billie Holiday at
Newport, I'm so enraged with myself that I'm beyond tears. Who can't
even handle a simple tea party? What is my problem? (Why can't I
blend in with the manicured bushes that line every sidewalk, the
Susans grinning as they jog? Will it always feel like this—carrying a
secret shame, leaving parties early to cry?)
Cell phone towers blur past my side-view mirrors, dressed up as
pine trees among the palms. I grit my teeth listening to Billie's “Lady
Sings the Blues.” I think I feel my car's engine stall as I take the first
left into our gated community.
Maybe I was always supposed to suffer my episodes and “fits.”
Maybe the heaviness is a test I'm meant to endure, like Job, the actual
saddest character in the entire Bible. God just kept making things
shitty for poor Job and telling him that it was worth it, that his
suffering was good and holy, that it would bring him happiness in the
end. As if a vague promise of future relief is any consolation for
complete torment.
Then something mysterious happens.
After I pull into the driveway, I see what I've done. Feathers are
backlit in the evening dark by headlights, casting shadows of fluttering
brownish wisps. I shriek, leap out of the driver's seat, and peer around
to the bumper. A carcass. Bloodied, smashed into the grille. Even in its
disfigurement, how it's pasted to the front of the car like gum on the
bottom of a shoe, I recognize what kind of bird it is.
In eighth-grade Creation Science, we spent an inordinate amount
of time deeply studying seven species of birds common to our area.
This is a mourning dove, a sad-looking species with a dull sandboxbrown color and a weirdly long neck. I've always been struck by the
name.
What is it trying to tell me?
Maybe I'm being paranoid. Maybe Bible stories and chemical
imbalance have finally rendered me unable to distinguish fiction from
reality. But this pitiful, ruined thing is here for a reason. It reminds me
of the white dove that God sent to Noah after the flood, to assure him
that everything was okay, that hope and peace were on the horizon.
Except, you know, the opposite.
BLACK EMO: HOW TO BE A WALKING SAD-WHITEWOMAN-FOR-DUMMIES BY MORGAN PARKER
I don't fit. That's it, no big mystery, no trigger that flipped the
depressive disorder switch. I'm one of a few token black kids at Vista
Christian, another place I hate, because it's like going to high school
inside a church inside a PacSun. I'm basically a loner with the wrong
taste in everything, the wrong dreams and fears and wardrobe staples.
I couldn't be more awkward and incorrect.
Is there a history of mental illness in your family? I mean,
probably. We don't talk about it, at least not that way. There's the
delusional cousin who brags about braiding Snoop Dogg's hair, the
uncle with all the far-fetched government conspiracy theories. These
people are referred to as “kinda different” or “crazy.” No one has any
kind of diagnosis.
Therapy definitely isn't a black thing. It's like emotional stability is
the least of our worries. Part of why I'm so ashamed of my depression
is that it feels bratty, uncalled-for, a privilege I haven't earned. (“What
do you have to cry about?” my parents scream when we fight,
100 percent perplexed.) Being emo is not black. At least I'm pretty
sure it's not. My parents call my music “white music.” In sixth grade,
some boys in my class told me that I “act white,” and it stung more
than I want to admit. (That was the last time I ate lunch with the black
kids.)
I've lost track of how many times I've been told I'm not really
black, how many times I've been the only black girl at the sleepover,
the only black person in the mosh pit, the only black person in the
theater for The Squid and the Whale, or the only person at all who
listens to Sunny Day Real Estate. I get that I'm not like black people on
TV, and I don't only listen to rap or dress like any of my cousins, but
being unique and depressed doesn't change my skin color. (Why
should Modest Mouse or Noah Baumbach films or John Steinbeck be
white things, belonging only to white people? Is it wrong that I love
them?)
Not that I really know many black people outside of my family.
There's another black girl in my class, Stacy Johnson, but she calls
herself “mixed.” She won't even use the bulky “African American
people” that our teachers gingerly pronounce. The same goes for most
of the other splotches of color around school—like, if no one says “I'm
black” outright, it won't be a thing. A version of passing for kids who
grew up in the nineties.
Plus, one of the major tenets of Christian schools, right after gossip
and abstinence, is “I don't see color.” Everyone acts like there's
nothing different about my race, but they're just going by the script.
We say the words, but it doesn't really matter who they're for or if we
believe them.
Anyway, I was never a very good token, like Lisa Turtle in Saved
by the Bell, or Gabrielle Union in 10 Things I Hate About You. I'm too
weird. If I was white, I could come across as a knockoff ScarJo in
Ghost World, or maybe the girl in Girl, Interrupted. I might even be
cool or cool-adjacent, a manic pixie dream girl that guys go crazy for.
But no one gives a shit about the black version of that.
STILL LIFE WITH ANXIETY ATTACK
At the suggestion of Susan and all the books (Living with Your
Depressed Teen, or whatever), my parents have been aggressively
trying to get me to be active, even though they learned long ago that I
am not big into activities. (Here is a list of activities I endured as a
child, my parents always offering a new idea, desperate for one to
stick: soccer, softball, ballet, tap, gymnastics, swim team, diving,
karate, voice lessons, acting classes, debate, cheerleading, modeling,
volleyball. Shame after damn shame.)
The compromise this summer has been an introductory art class at
a community college in Grand Terrace. Populated almost entirely by
White Moms with gray hair and cargo shorts (two out of eight are
named Susan), the class consists of painting freaking watercolor
sunsets while Adult Christian Contemporary music bores you to death.
But there is a cute guy. David. He's the only other person in the
class who's under forty and not white. And in the parking lot before
our very last class, I finally talk to him. He comes up to me while I'm
sneaking a cigarette and brooding next to my car.
“Hey.”
Dark messy curls shape his brown face, almost olive in the
sunlight. His hair is an awkward length and frizzy, like he can't decide
how long he wants it to be. A worn-out Billabong T-shirt and navy
church pants. Like he can't decide on anything.
“Hey.”
“Whatcha listening to?”
“Sunny Day Real Estate.”
“Oh. Never heard of them.”
“Most people haven't.”
“What kind of music is it?”
“Um…kinda indie emo.”
“Oh.”
The rest of the strip mall is mostly a ghost town, but I dart my eyes
around anyway, as if even the storefront of the frozen-yogurt place is
more interesting than talking to him.
He thrusts his hands into his pockets and scuffs his Vans on the
pavement, carabiner jingling from his belt buckle.
“Should we go in?”
“K.” I smile weakly.
As we walk the few strides to the studio, I try not to let him see me
glance over at his jawline, his arm swinging so close to mine. Me
interacting with boys is excruciating, just disgraceful. I'm always
crossing and uncrossing my arms; trying to hide my boobs or tugging
at my jeans; trying to simultaneously come off as the ideal girlfriend
and one of the guys; forgetting and then remembering my face and the
rolls of flesh that make up stumpy, unsexy me.
In class today we're doing still-life drawings with charcoal. The
objects for everyone's still life, positioned hurriedly on a card table
before us, stare into me, garish and weird. I have arranged a tableau of
stuff from my purse: a bubblegum-pink lighter, a bruised apple, the
stub of a green crayon, Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim by
David Sedaris.
It's a weird day because it's raining, but it's that humid, almoststeamy summer rain. The dampness awakens something in the stale
paints and dried brushes in the classroom. There's a musty fog over
everything. A quiet smell. The stillness makes me nervous and selfconscious. The room is a cocoon around me, everything pointed at me.
The nineties posters of the color wheel and Matisse cutouts are closing
in.
Then this dumb rom-com thing happens: as I reach for an eraser,
my shoulder brushes against David's. It's a brief moment, but he turns
to me and smiles, the teeniest bit of flirtation.
I picture all the boys from my class in the locker rooms before PE,
changing into their sweat-stained Vista Eagles T-shirts, naming all the
girls they think are hot, then landing on me and: She's weird. The nice
ones I grew up trading burned CDs with might be gentler: I could only
really see her as a friend or She's not really my type. The message is
the same: gross.
And here's the thing: I'm not even sure I think any of them are
cute, with their white-boy freckles and spindly arms. That bland, allAmerican flatness. But I know I'm supposed to want them, and so I do.
Am I immediately out of the running simply because I'm not just like
everybody else? (Isn't it weird what gets trapped in your head like a
splinter? The little voice you hear so long it sounds like yours?)
In the parking lot, a Camry zooms by blasting Shania Twain's
“Man! I Feel Like a Woman!” and a Susan giggles on cue. I can't even
muster the fake smile she wants in return.
I try to focus all my attention on my drawing but struggle with the
apple's contours. My wrist's movements are totally out of my control.
Annoyed, I look at the clock: still fifty minutes left in class.
Slip in my earbuds, attempt to get into a zone. Kim Gordon sings
You can buy some more and more and more and more, and I smudge
and smudge my charcoal lines. Nothing is recognizable. I don't hear
David or the White Moms, but I can see them laughing, breathing
easily. Go for the book, a straight line, fail. Lick my finger and try to
smudge more. Get embarrassed. Clench my chest. What the fuck am I
doing here. Am maybe going to scream. Can't move. Inhale and gasp
for air like I'm in a pool. Eyes pin prick at my body. Abruptly zoom to
the door. So awkward. Am I going to die. Will I pass out. Crouch on
sidewalk, wring hands together.
—
After a few minutes my mind stops racing, and I come into focus. I'm
still breathing like someone in a movie who's going into labor. The rain
has stopped, but the world is beginning-of-Wizard-of-Oz gray. My butt
is wet.
“Heyyy.” It's David, singsongy but tender, plopping himself next to
me. “You okay?”
“I just need a minute,” I manage, probably snapping at him,
probably being rude. I'm just so totally unfit for social contact right
now.
“You, my dear”—he rubs my back—“are having a panic attack.”
“Huh?” I wriggle away, press my flat palm to my chest and neck
and inhale deeply. “Yeah,” I breathe, glancing at him. “How do you
know?”
“My girlfriend gets them sometimes.”
Dang. Typical.
I picture her like basically everyone at my school, with a breezy
personality and simple needs. Or even like Meg, smart and quirky.
Either way, white. Some damn messy bun.
I do the yoga breaths I practiced with Susan: slowly and
thoughtfully in through the nose, then out through the mouth with my
lips pursed like a whistle. (I can't whistle.) (Or is it in through the
mouth and out through the nose? Ugh, I can't even relax right.)
“Er, ex-girlfriend, I guess. I'm still figuring out how to say that,
four freaking months later. Ex ex ex ex ex…”
He talks to the air above us, head titled up toward the rolling duvet
of gray clouds. “Sorry. Anyway, it will pass. We'll just sit here quietly
and wait it out.”
“K. You can go back in if you want.”
“No way, dude. Wanna talk about it?”
I don't know anything about this guy. How could I possibly know
what to tell him, what words to even use? How would I tell anyone, for
that matter?
I stare at the small pool of rainwater that swirls around our shoes.
And for a second, I just sit and exist. He lets it happen. He seems
totally chill.
“I think maybe God smited me.” I don't know if I mean it as a joke
or as a true confession. Maybe both.
“Oh noooo, dude! A curse upon your house for all generations? Or
just a low-key plague of locusts or what?”
“Nice.” Of course, it comes off snarkier than I want. What I wish I
could do is giggle and tuck my hair behind my ear. “I'm sorry, I just…”
The empty space between us is so uncomfortable, but I can't think of
anything else to say.
I close my eyes. I imagine being anywhere else. I imagine David
not seeing me this way, not now or ever. I'm almost mad at him for
being here, his hand limply cupping my shoulder.
We sit like this on the curb for thirty minutes, not saying much,
every now and then passing movie recommendations between us. He's
never seen my favorite, All About Eve, and I've never seen his favorite,
Fight Club.
“Man, you gotta let me know what you think of the ending,” he
basically squeals.
I know I should feel warmth with David in this moment, maybe
even butterflies. I'm grateful for his kindness and I think he's
awesome, but it's hard to feel excited about making a new friend,
because I can't feel anything. I'm watching it happen, but it isn't
happening to me. I'm disconnected from everything outside my head.
The rain starts up again for a minute; we watch it splash down
from the awning. I hate this kind of rain, the slanty kind that comes in
short, hard bursts. Finally David jumps up and scrunches his face,
appraising the wet butt of his pants.
“We should get going before we have to answer to the Moms.”
“Oh, you're right.” I dart up, damp and light-headed.
“Let me put my number in your phone.”
“Huh? Oh yeah, okay.” I fish my phone out of the pocket of my
Pretty Girls Make Graves hoodie (I always wear merch hoodies on
rainy days) and hand it over.
“And…,” he mumbles as he types briskly. “I'm texting myself….”
He hands the phone back to me, grinning.
“Hey, um, thanks, for today, for this.”
“Psh, ain't no thing, dude.”
He marches off swinging his arms in wide, weightless half-moons.
Settling into my car, I take a deep breath and collect myself.
Glance over my CDs and decide on silence. My phone dings as I plop it
into the cup holder. Text message from David Santos. David.
<3
Huh.
I try not to smile, but I'm only human.
MARISSA
This is a story about Marissa. Marissa was a pretend friend before she
was a real one, back when you were thirteen. It was convenient—her
mom didn't let her watch TV, but yours did; you could walk to each
other's houses; you sat together at your brothers' Little League games
and stayed after to watch the boys from your class. You lusted over her
entitled relationship to fun. Marissa flirts with the boys and they flirt
back. Even her crush flirts back, which you didn't even know was
possible. In your universe, it isn't.
If you're mad at Marissa, she finds a reason to get mad at you. She
has a way of turning the tables. She commits the crime, but somehow
you end up apologizing, and maybe you even owe her. The scales of the
world tip in Marissa's direction.
Marissa isn't really emo. (She listens to Good Charlotte.) She's a
poser, but the boys don't care. Wanting her makes them not care about
anything else. Marissa tells you you're jealous that boys like her and
not you, and then goes back to painting her nails silver and watching
Mandy Moore in the movie. She tucks a piece of thin long hair behind
her ear with a sense of satisfaction and ease that you have never
experienced and probably never will. Not in this universe. Everyone
you can't be is a Marissa, and you are surrounded by Marissas.
This is a story about you. The night you spill the bottle of Disco
Fever polish on the carpet in your bedroom, you feel pitiful.
Everything about the moment—those dumb songs in A Walk to
Remember and Mandy Moore's horrible dumpy cardigans; Marissa's
puka shells; the sting you feel and keep feeling—reminds you how
pitiful you are. Reminds you of your place.
You're the Laney Boggs in She's All That. You spill the nail polish
and ruin your carpet. You swallow the words down.
But this is not a story about you. This is a story about me, and I am
the hero.
MORGAN PARKER NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED
This morning I am a scientific curiosity on the examination table at
Dr. Li's office, a place I've been coming to since I was a kid. Except this
time, I'm not getting shots for the new school year. I'm getting pills.
Dr. Li already spoke to Susan about my symptoms and official
diagnosis: DSM-IV 311 Depressive Disorder Not Otherwise Specified.
(Go figure, even the Manual of Mental Disorders doesn't have a name
for me. What a life, defying classification.)
He talked to my parents, too, and they probably explained that
they are at the “end of their rope” and “don't know what to do with
me.” (“Are we bad parents?” they probably asked him, just like they
keep asking me. “Is it something we did?” “How can we fix this?” This,
in case it's not clear, is me, the fucked-up firstborn.)
The nurse gives me a photocopied questionnaire and a golf pencil
that's almost too small to use. “Take your time!” she chirps, then slips
out of the room, her blond ponytail shimmying.
There are these truly awful illustrations of bunnies and flower
gardens filling the white spaces between the text: Over the past
month, have you experienced any of the following problems?,
followed by a list of statements like I have little interest in my
activities and I believe other people are generally better than I am. I
know all the right answers because I've already been through this with
Susan. I check the same pathetic boxes and wait, hunching and
straightening my shoulders and swinging my Vans.
Dr. Li comes in and greets me like always, planting himself on the
swivel chair and taking out his ear-inspector thing. He talks fast and
moves quickly but nonchalantly. I am always a good kid, an excellent
student. I usually breeze through appointments like small chats with
distant relatives on Thanksgiving.
“Morgan! How are we doing?”
“Fine.”
“That's good, that's good. Open for me?”
I do, and almost wonder if he'll find something in my throat, a
depression hair ball or some marking never before seen in the history
of medicine. Some proof.
“All right, everything's great. Let's have a look,” he says, gesturing
for my A+ quiz.
He looks at it on his clipboard sternly and silently for, like, a full
minute. Then he flashes me a big, bright fake grin.
“So, Morgan, why don't you tell me what's been going on with
you?”
“Um…um,” I stutter aimlessly. “Well, nothing happened. I don't
know why I'm…feeling kind of low lately.”
Dr. Li smiles flatly. “Okay. We'll see if we can get you feeling more
like yourself.”
(But: Myself seems to be the problem.)
He writes me a prescription for a starter dose of Wellbutrin and
breaks everything down. Some people, he says, are depressed only
once in their lives. Others get depressed sometimes, when they're
triggered. And some people just need to be treated for depression all
the time. It's just a thing they have that doesn't go away. I'm obviously
that one.
If the Wellbutrin doesn't work, we'll try Prozac next, or Lexapro,
Dr. Li tells me. (I guess there are all these different types of
antidepressants and inhibitors?) There will be months and months of
trial and error and maybe some serious side effects. I'm told to watch
for anxiety attacks, that if they become regular, I will also be
prescribed Xanax. I'm told to look out for extreme fatigue, that if it
persists, I'll be prescribed Adderall. I'm picturing myself morphing
into a literal medicine cabinet, like the wardrobe from Beauty and the
Beast.
“So, you're seventeen. Gonna be a junior?” he asks casually,
shuffling some papers.
“Yup.”
“Do you have a boyfriend?”
“Oh, I told the nurse before that I'm not sexually active.” I use air
quotes and make it a little comedy routine. Doctors never really laugh
at your jokes.
“That's not what I asked. Do you have a boyfriend?”
“No.” I fold my hands in my lap.
“Hmm.” (Does he not believe me?) “Morgan, let me ask you
something. You answered that you lost control one time—”
“I didn't plan it. I didn't really want to hurt myself. I just—”
He puts up his hand like a stop sign. I anxiously shift around on
the crinkly paper underneath me.
“Was it about a boy?”
My eyes get wide with shock. “No! Nothing like that!”
“It's just that sometimes it's common with teenage girls, you know,
to have feelings of rejection or low self-esteem. Maybe you're having
trouble fitting in, or you aren't getting attention from boys….”
I shake my head furiously. “No, I mean, it just sucks being alive
sometimes. That's literally a fact!” (I seriously can't be the only human
in the history of time who acknowledges that existence is not always
magnificent.)
“I understand that, I do. Just as long as you know you are a bright
and special young woman.”
“Okay. No, I know, I do.”
Jesus Christ. His whole thing is so corny.
(I don't know what's pissing me off more: how reductive and
antifeminist it was to assume that some dumb boy is causing my
depression, or how quickly Dr. Li concluded that I'm basically a
boyfriend-less loser. If I didn't have low self-esteem before, he
definitely made sure I wouldn't go home without it.)
“So, is your brother playing football again this year?”
“Uh, yeah, I think.”
“Good, good. You tell him I say hi. And your parents.”
I nod. “I will.”
“What are you…was it the school newspaper you worked on last
year?”
“Um, yearbook, yeah. I'm actually editor this year.”
“Good to hear it. Well, keep up those grades. Still getting As?”
“Yep, all As.”
He stands up to leave and slaps me on the back on his way to the
door. “Good girl. See? Life's not so bad.”
I forget to smile like I'm supposed to. The door slams shut.
You know those commercials for antidepressants with the little
cartoon egg that has a gray cloud hanging over it? Or the ones where a
lady gazes sadly through a window at all her friends laughing it up in a
park?
The list of possible side effects is always so long that the
commercials have to include a gratuitous montage of the formerly sad
person grinning like crazy in various locations, finally laughing it up in
a park.
This is what I mean—nothing is risk-free. No solution is quite
perfect, not drugs or religion or even love. There's always the haunting
threat of ending up right back in the dark pit where you started.
That's what I mean about the bird sweater, about all of it. I want
be a formerly sad lady finally laughing it up in various locations,
totally chill with wearing the bird sweater, delighted by parks and
activities. I wish for it like a child makes a birthday wish—seriously,
tightly. But what possible side effects am I risking?
Also, wait a minute, where the fuck is my sticker? Are doctors not
doing that anymore?
ANOTHER SUNNY DAY I HATE
It's another beautiful day that I hate. Off to my certain hell of Rainbow
flip-flops and bouncing messy buns, of flabby, sunburned teacher
arms in flowered sundresses from 1995. The same cast of characters,
shifted very slightly, like tectonic plates. I'm a different person too.
Malcolm rides icily in the passenger's seat this morning, looking
through my CD case like it's a menu for his last meal on earth. When
Malcolm and I are friends, we are best friends. Things are fun and
spontaneous around the house; we're always joking, or sharing music,
or watching a Disney Channel Original Movie we sickeningly know
every word to. But I killed that entire vibe.
(One of the things I hated most about the night of my “episode”
was the look on my brother's face as he peered from the next room at
my breakdown. He looked like he was watching a bullfight. He looked
at me like I was a monster, and he hasn't looked at me the same since.)
“What's this?” Malcolm finally holds up a burned CD labeled in
fading black marker:
THIS AL
BUM IS
PERFECT
My handwriting. It's Neutral Milk Hotel, In the Aeroplane over the
Sea.
“It's perfect.” I grin cheesily. (I make a lot of jokes to myself.)
We don't say anything, just listen to the first song uninterrupted.
“Pretty good. What's the band again?”
“Neutral Milk Hotel. I know—the name makes no sense.”
“Cool, maybe I'll check it out.”
“Take the CD! I'll burn another copy. Besides,” I kid, “you need my
whole collection, anyway, before I go to college.”
“Okay,” he laughs. “I don't know about all that.”
Banter! I turn to him and we bust up with the giggles; we
temporarily laugh it up. I roll down the windows and turn up the
music. A moment of escape. My eighties BMW, Rudy, putts along,
boxy and stale-smelling and glorious.
The brisk morning all around you, the perfect soundtrack, a long
road, and someone riding shotgun you trust more than yourself: it
could be the way a movie starts.
We pull into the parking lot for Vista Christian School and Vista
Christian Church, the singular buzzkill. “Alllll right,” I exhale as I park
between two identical Honda Civics. While Malcolm collects his stinky
football pads and almost-empty backpack from the trunk, I glare at the
giddy nerds scurrying around all enthused about their Christian
education.
Malcolm gives me an ingrained hug goodbye when some buddies
howl at him from the entrance, and before he jogs off, we dab each
other with goofy smiles, like no one can see us.
“See ya.”
“Have a good day, sis.”
I made it. September. I know that sounds dramatic, but it's true. I
have infiltrated high school once again, and triumphantly, kinda. I
count to five and summon every grain of energy in my body, preparing
myself for a day of normality. Normality, which I wear like a too-tight
hoodie. Maybe I can make it work. All I have to do is pretend. Say my
lines. Let the day blur around me.
But now I'm standing before the doors of my unfortunate,
awkward reality. I'm not in the mood to pretend to care about God. I
am totally not in the mood for all these awful smiles and idiotic people.
Hordes of chipper white kids rush past me, reeking of Axe and sicklysweet Victoria's Secret perfume. I'm flooded with dread at the thought
of all the months ahead—all the weird dramas I won't see coming, all
the possibility, the rumors and fights, the boys, the shame of PE, the
pro-life, the African American History Month, the election stuff, the
dances, so many freaking worship songs, not to mention keeping my
antidepressants a secret. I won't see any of it coming, just like last
year, and I won't be prepared.
“Excuse you!” someone says under their breath. A jab at my elbow
sends all the noise of the hallway rushing back to me.
Some senior guys scowl as they push past. I mutter “Sorry” and a
voice bellows, “What's up with her outfit? Hey! What are you supposed
to be? Are you in a play or something? Hey, you!”
(It's like I'm freaking Ruby Bridges or something. Why is this my
existence?)
(By the way, I'm wearing a very good outfit. I usually am. A vintage
navy polka-dot shift dress and my high-top canvas Chucks. No one
around here has style.)
And, of course, following behind their snickering is Marissa, my
old best friend, and Jordan Jacobsen, a generally terrible person who
was once a nice-enough kid. Marissa's just grinning at nothing in her
little bubble, holding Jordan's stiff, bored arm, wearing some terrible
tank top. We notice each other at the same time, and my eyes pretend
to dart around.
“Hey,” her voice squeaks haltingly.
I wave and grimace back. Suddenly a paw claps at my shoulder
and I jump, startled. “Miss Morgan Parker!”
I spin around dramatically. “Hi, Mr. K.”
As tall and gray and corny as ever.
“Can I look forward to you torturing me again in class this year?
You're in the AP section, right?”
“Yeah…second period, I think.”
“Bright and early, uh-oh!”
I side-eye back at him. I get the sense he thinks our little rivalry is
cute; I do not find it cute. He's super annoying and obsessed with
Reaganomics.
“Don't worry—they let me caffeinate in the teachers' lounge now.”
It's true: I'm terrible without coffee.
(All my teachers, so familiar with me and my whole thing, have no
idea what to do with me. On the one hand, I'm consistently an
excellent student. On the other hand, I'm a pain in the ass, I talk too
much, I crack jokes freely and flippantly, I have one of the loudest
laughs in America, and I blatantly disavow rules and decorum. The
short, little black girl in the weird outfit, who you can hear cackling
from all the way across the hall, who will never just do what she's told,
will never just smooth down the edges, assimilate better.)
“Lucky me, and in an election year! You must be excited,” he says
with a Grinch smile. “You're probably loving all this Obama stuff.”
“I mean, I can't vote yet.” I shift my weight, consider screaming
something about my time of the month and flying right back to my car.
Instead I say my lines. “But, yes, for the record, I would be voting for
the Democratic Party and the first black president of the United States.
Like, duh!” Now I'm talking with my hands and everything, doing my
shtick.
“Of course! I have to admit it's an interesting election cycle. So get
ready!”
Maybe I'm hallucinating: he does some kind of shoulder shimmy,
flicks his fingers at me like liver-spotted guns. Ugh.
Looking for my first-period classroom, I try to be anonymous, but
it's impossible. There are sixty of us in our class, and we've been
together since seventh grade, some of us since pre-K. I forgot how
exhausting and repetitive this day would be, with all of the How was
your summer?! and Oh my gosh, hi! I'm not in the mood to catch up.
It takes a lot of energy to fake-smile and lie through your teeth all day.
My first class is Honors American Lit with Mr. Howard, who I had
last year for Creative Writing. I pretty much won his heart with all my
writings in that class. He's the one who granted me teachers' lounge
access—he usually asks me to refill his cup, too.
I'm a pain in the ass and all that, but I'm objectively a good
student, and I mean well. I care about learning, I love reading, I'm
passionate about writing, I don't mind helping explain things to other
students, and I genuinely want to be good, despite all the ways I don't
fit the usual profile. Something I've learned to do, at the very least, is
be helpful. So my teachers enlist me for little tasks—grading,
photocopying, note-taking—just to keep me busy. The school part of
school is basically chill. The problem is that I'm here, and I'm me.
Hungrily, I scan the syllabus during introductions. We're doing
poetry first, and I hate poetry. Mr. Howard hands out poems about
cabins and farm animals by some old white men with beards, Robert
Frost and Wally Longlegs or something.
“Twenty minutes of quiet reading while I have my coffee,” he
explains. “Sorry, did I say quiet? I mean completely and utterly silent.”
He laughs at himself, and no one else does.
I shoot up my hand. “Mr. Howard, this is gonna be a weird
question.”
Someone lets out a sinister snicker and says, “Of course.” I don't
even turn to look. Whatever—these people don't read.
“Yes, ma'am?” Mr. Howard takes a sip of his coffee from a mug
that says No thank you. He has a squirrelly face—if he were a cartoon,
he might be a villain, but in person it kinda makes him look
trustworthy.
“Can I sit on the floor while I'm reading? It helps me think.”
“Whatever makes you happy.”
After the summer I've been through, the least of my worries are
the eye rolls spurred by my request, everyone laughing it up at me, the
weirdo. Morgan, runner up for Class Clown, tied with the other black
girl for Loudest, and sole original owner of the superlative Most
Unique (not otherwise specified).
I don't care; now is about getting happy and comfortable, moving
forward. I've looked into the face of the end of the world, and guess
what? No one from school was there.
PART WHERE I DO NOTHING SUGGESTED
Another thing that annoys me about this high school inside a PacSun
inside a church: glorified Sunday school teachers posing as experts in
the scientific method or British literature telling me it's time to “Get
Serious,” that I need to “Prepare for the Future.” Meanwhile I'm like,
Um actually, what I need to do is stop wanting to die.
Everyone in the junior class is required to meet with the college
counselor, Mrs. Martinez. (Last year she was the school nurse. I need
explanations.) My appointment Friday morning lasts basically ten
minutes—she tells me I should “consider the Christian colleges right
here in Southern California!”
Another thing I hate about it here is how almost every classroom is
decorated with some version of that poster with the footprints on the
beach, which I know is supposed to be inspiring but has always
creeped me out. (What is the difference, seriously, between angels and
ghosts? Why are we supposed to be afraid of one and cool with the
other? And actually, same question goes for heaven and hell.)
Mrs. Martinez has one of those posters right behind her desk, and I
read the bad poem over and over while she talks.
“A degree from a Christian college isn't the Ivy League,” she says
like a freaking infomercial, “but it's nothing to sneeze at. You don't
have to sacrifice your walk with God for a rigorous education.”
I nod. I will be doing none of what she suggests.
When I am spit back into the empty hallways after her little
brainwashing session, I take my time meandering to my locker. I
really want to text David, but I don't know the rules about who's
supposed to text who each day. Whatever. I go for it.
Hello please save me I hate it here
(His reply is instant!)
hey
DID
YOU
WATCH
FIGHT
CLUB
YET
????????
LOL
Ok so
I did, OMG! I will never hear the Pixies the same way again!
Was I supposed to understand the ending?
isn't it craaaaazy?!
I have some theories
Heading to bio
Oh cool
Talk later?
I type Yeah! Then Yeah. Then Sure sounds good. Then I just send
a K.
Down the hall, James and Meg are parked on some benches
outside the library. They wave, so I go over and plop myself next to
them, as if I have nothing better to do. I sort of don't.
“What's up?”
“We're in ‘study hall,' ” Meg says, making air quotes and rolling her
eyes.
“What are you guys up to for the rest of the day?”
James is picking all the chocolate chips out of a bag of a trail mix.
“Isn't there a pep rally?”
I forgot about it because I was planning on faking debilitating
menstrual cramps and hiding in the yearbook office. There's no way I
can endure, like, three hours of pretending to laugh at our teachers
throwing footballs or whatever. “But we should…not go to that, right?”
“You mean skip?” Meg looks skeptical. I raise my eyebrows at her,
and James joins in with a devilish grin.
“Eh? Eh?” He pokes her shoulder like a little brother, incessant
and playful.
She gives him a look, trying not to crack a smile, and sticks her
finger in his face. “Okay, but you're driving.”
—
I, straight-A student, well behaved and mostly afraid of hellfire, have
never ditched school, so I never realized how easy it would be. There is
literally no security at school, just some eternal angelic presence that's
supposed to make us feel guilty enough not to do anything wrong.
When we get to the gravel parking lot, I take out a Parliament and
light it, because why the hell not.
“Good idea,” says James. Then, after selecting a baby-blue Nat
Sherman from a silver cigarette case, he gestures at a dirty white truck
with a ladder on its roof and some unidentifiable tarp-covered objects
in the bed.
“By the way, you guys, I'm driving my dad's work truck. Hope you
don't mind the absence of glamour.”
“Oh jeez,” says Meg. “I suppose we can do without glamour just
this once.”
But it does feel glamorous to escape, to be in charge of ourselves.
Up until now, everything has been commandments: Don't have a
conniption. Do take the SAT practice test seriously. Do not question
your faith. Do not ask questions about politics. Do vote Republican. Do
not have sex before marriage. Do smile. Do pray.
Junior year feels different. I decided to keep being alive, so I have
to decide how to do it.
Now I'm picking the music.
JESUS, ETC.
For the record, I don't not believe in something. I guess I'll just figure
out later what “something” is. If you look at things from the other side,
any option seems ludicrous. A magic surfer guy in Birkenstocks; the
randomness of gas flickering in the sky; chimps becoming people. (I
picture Eve the rapper as Eve from the Bible, holding an unidentifiable
fruit in front of her paw-print-tattooed boobs. Hilarious. Sign me up
for that religion.)
None of these dogmas provide a valid explanation for my life.
Nothing can tell me how to just relax about everything.
What would happen if I died? What good would it be to know the
answer?
(Still, in the middle of the night when I hear a noise that sounds
like it could be a trumpet heralding the Rapture, I am terrified,
ashamed that I straight-up am not sure what I believe or what I
deserve. Where am I going?)
Marissa, my former BFF, was—is, I guess—super into Jesus. God's
Plan, Jesus-fish earrings, the whole nine. It's kind of beautiful, really,
the way she walks a line between dark and light. She loves emo bands
and guys who resemble the undead, but she still clutches her cross
necklace and sings along in chapel. Kelly's like that too. She really
believes.
(I don't sing in chapel.)
(Marissa doesn't really love emo bands. Once again: she likes Good
Charlotte.)
Marissa and I used to listen to Christian rock and ska bands that
played on Christian radio (between anti-gay and pro-life commercials
sponsored by Focus on the Family), sometimes went to their concerts
at megachurches. Some of the bands actually had really good music,
but the lyrics were creepily passionate and uplifting, to the point
where I could never all-the-way enjoy it. Like, Audio Adrenaline has a
song that sounds like a Sublime song, or Elvis or something, but
they're chanting Do you know where you're gonna go? and describing
various unexpected ways you might die at any minute (run over by a
Mack truck; or suddenly, while “nappin' in your easy chair”). Do you
know where you're gonna go? Straight to heaven, the song asks, or
down the hole? I get that dumb song stuck in my head all the time. It's
weird that something that other people celebrate, find comfort in, can
make me so traumatized and fearful.
—
I've been freaking out about sins and consequences since my very first
day of pre-K at Vista Christian Elementary. School has always been a
land of parables and warnings: felt boards depicting scenes of Jesus
and his disciples. Moses and the Red Sea constructed with macaroni
and painted lima beans. Always there is a snake. A staff becoming a
snake, or a snake appearing in the trees, whispering temptation. I
almost expected to find snakes slithering through lines of second
graders at lunch, coiled under end tables in the church foyer, sticking
their tongues out of my PE locker. Just waiting to catch me failing to
be perfect.
If you didn't grow up in the American suburbs, or in any place
that's designed to be a model of what is proper and wholesome and
happy, then you might not understand what living here can do to a
person like me, a person who doesn't want to go in the straight line of
a paved and lighted path.
I could quote dozens of Bible verses about truth, about Christ as
the Truth, the only Way, the Light. We nod and Amen. We say we love
the truth. Maybe, sometimes, that's real.
But not everything true is good. So we keep it behind a wall, or
covered with a table runner, or drenched in potpourri, or shelved away
in an elaborate storage system from the Container Store. We pretend
there's no elephant galloping around the room (or whatever elephants
do), and we don't ask too many questions or cause any scenes.
It never really gets cold in Southern California, which makes our
little corner of churches and expensive skate shoes feel like its own
planet without seasons, where nothing ever dies and nothing ever gets
dark. But if you start to see the suburbs differently, if you start to see
the rules differently, you start to see yourself differently. You could be
unborn again. You could start a new story.
Here is the church, here is the steeple, here is the church and the
church and the church, all of these Good People. Imagine what living
in a place like this could do to a person like me.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ME AND THEM
Meg, James, and I are packed into the truck's bench seat, ladders
clanging loudly on its roof. We drive aimlessly. Bicker about whether
to listen to classic rock radio or the new Wolf Parade or the new Death
Cab. Compare class schedules. Eventually we decide to go to a café
downtown, on the ground floor of an abandoned theater. I order a
black coffee, while James and Meg both get large teas. Meg takes two
packs of Splenda in hers; James, milk, “like the English.” I don't know
where he gets this stuff.
James's family is notoriously kooky and blue collar—his dad is
always covered in car grease; his mom always says way too much when
anyone asks “how are you”—and it's kind of great. I know I'm
supposed to find them weird, but they've always been nice and funny
in our brief interactions over the years. Meanwhile, James loves to
dress up for no reason, and at other times is completely unkempt. He
describes himself as “socially liberal and fiscally conservative.” (I want
to say, I'm not sure the conservatives really have your best interests
in mind, bro. But I just think conservatives are mean.) He's out of
place but perfectly easygoing and adaptable, kind of like his own vision
board. I get it.
Walking along Main Street, we wander in and out of comic book
shops, antique stores. Meg and I give bratty grins to judgmental
elderly people and giggle at James's theatrics. He's such a great actor
and, separately, a fantastically dramatic person. We both do the school
play every year, but it's cool hanging out with him outside of
rehearsals; we don't get to talk much there because he's like, a lead,
and I always play Rosa Parks. (Not literally—I only played Actual Rosa
Parks once—but same sort of thing, just sit there quietly. Even my
speaking roles seem like nonspeaking roles. Somehow my costume is
always a woolen skirt suit.)
In the antiques store, poring over a stack of postcards with Meg,
I'm surprised how natural it is, even though we haven't hung out since
elementary school. It's like we're the same shade of awkward.
“Ugh.” I land on a portrait of Ronald Reagan. “We should get this
for Mr. K.”
Meg titters, “Oh my gosh, he would probably frame it and put it
next to the one of Bushy.”
“He would probably make us pledge allegiance!” I shiver, tossing
the cards down. “I am so glad we have that class together.”
“Seriously.” She squeezes my shoulder on our way out of the store.
A little bell jingles at the door. Meg and I raise eyebrows at each other
before sliding on our shades. Mine are big and round with white
frames. Her lime Ray-Bans match the dinosaur on her shirt.
“How is this place still open?” I wonder out loud as we pass the
scrapbook store, Hearts 'N' Crafts. “Jesus Christ. How many
scrapbooks can people make?”
Meg snorts and joins me at the storefront window, where I'm
gawking at rows and rows of stickers and puffy paint.
“Isn't that…” Meg squints at two blond women with short haircuts
who are conferring about cardstock. “Kelly's mom?”
“Oh dang.” I duck.
James wordlessly waves us over to a bookstore a few doors down,
and Meg and I rush in, flustered, and collect ourselves. My heart
pumps like I just ran laps in PE. (I could never be an effective outlaw—
I'm way too anxious, out of shape, and perpetually spooked.)
We all float to different areas in the otherwise-empty store, which
has some books but also CDs, fancy Bible covers, Precious Moments
figurines. I glance over my shoulder at the dude behind the register,
who's wearing a high-collared white shirt and too-long khaki shorts,
and I'm disturbed to see him looking right back at me, not even trying
to disguise his staring. Suddenly he abandons his post behind the
counter to lurk at a display on my left. I feel his hovering like needlepricks.
Meg and James are completely out of his view—they could be
bolting out the door with armfuls of cross necklaces, for all he knows. I
try to shake his suspicion, scrunch my eyebrows and begin
purposefully flipping through books like I care. One spine in particular
catches my eye: The Negro and the Curse of Ham.
Everything happens quickly: James shrieks, something topples to
the ground; lurker guy darts over to them; Meg mumbling “accident”
and “we'll fix it”; I get a rush of screw it, snatch up the book, and drop
it into the abyss of my tote bag; I slyly exit the store. Truancy and
theft. So punk.
Out on the sidewalk I sneak a look at the book's cover: in the
background are a bunch of Noah-looking bearded dudes wearing robes
and holding staffs, and in the foreground is a slave-looking guy in a
loincloth and shackles. (Maybe this explains why I feel so doomed. Or
at least why that dude was staring at me the way he was.)
Meg and James burst through the doorway, looking guilty and
stifling laughs.
“Yo, what happened?”
James raises his hand as an admission of guilt. “I got a little too
engrossed reading about Mormon underwear.”
Meg doubles over cackling.
“Whoa, wait. What?” I ask, wide-eyed. “That was a Mormon
bookstore?”
“Of course! You could tell because it was so creepy and clean,”
James explains, turning up his nose.
“What are they all about?”
“I think they're basically like Protestants but more racist?”
“Makes sense.”
“I could be wrong, but who cares,” trails James. He's already on
the move, strides ahead of us, headed toward a wide alley. He makes a
sudden turn into the little street, sidestepping a gutter.
Fatigue settles into my shoulders, and I start tallying up ideas for
getting out of the situation, going home, shutting down, curling up.
This is kind of a lot for me, the most socializing I've done in a while.
Meg halts. “Where are we going?”
“Don't worry about it. I know a place,” James says coolly.
Sashaying is the only way to describe how he is moving. I've never
seen him so comfortable. I feel special witnessing it.
“I just want to get an horchata.” (Horrible accent.)
“You are ridiculous,” Meg snorts matter-of-factly.
We follow, because what else can we do? He could be leading us
into an underground cult situation, and we would go. Anything new is
by default the most exciting thing that has ever happened to us.
“I'll wait outside while this whole situation plays out,” I say,
flicking my lighter to a cigarette.
“Me too,” Meg says quickly, and James disappears into a taco
shop. “I don't smoke, but I like the smell.”
She squats, leaning back against the stucco, and I join her. What
business do I have being pissed that someone wants to be near me?
“You know, I don't even really want this,” I admit, and stomp out
the cigarette after only two puffs.
We sit and exhale. She picks studiously at a fingernail bed. “Good
call on skipping the pep rally. I'm so glad we didn't have to sit through
one of Pastor Tyler's virginity lectures.”
“Yes!” I gasp. “Some dumb sports metaphor about defending the
goalposts or whatever. Thanks for being deviants with me. I know I
could have just hung out in the yearbook room but…”
“Oh, this is way better.”
“Yeah, I think I needed this.” I squint up at the fluffy clouds and
the relentlessly blue sky.
“I kinda thought you'd be into all that stuff because of Marissa….”
She sneaks a sideways glance at me; I shrug back knowingly.
“Psh,” I say, like I'm totally over it. “Not since she ditched me for
Jordan Jacobsen.”
“Gross! When did that happen?”
“Oh, just on the very last day of school.”
“Yikes. That really sucks. I'm sorry, dude.” She presses her
shoulder into mine, and I take a deep breath.
“You know, it does, but it's actually okay. I'm ready for something
new, anyway. And I don't want a friend who's just gonna disappear
over some douchebag.”
“Yeah! Over some asshole! Who does that?”
I just shake my head. I can't look at her, because I'll fall apart, but
I want to reach out and grab her hand and hang on. I want her quiet
confidence, her self-determination. Like all other freaks, my mantra is
I don't care what people think. But like most other freaks, I care
desperately about what people think, how they see me, what makes my
existence so different from theirs.
The restaurant door flings open with the sound of accordions and
James bellowing “Gracias!”
“I have returned!” He poses, and we giggle despite rolling our eyes
at him, pull ourselves up from the ground. “Ready?”
I give him a salute.
“Hey—” I'm suddenly enveloped in a loose, bony hug from Meg. It
almost confuses me. “At least you have us now.”
That's one thing I've always liked about Meg. She actually doesn't
care what people think about her quirks or bluntness or
ridiculousness. At least not enough to hide herself. You can't help but
respect her.
What I decide to do next is get out of my own way. Hazy with
exhaustion and hope, I link arms with them, James slurping loudly on
his horchata.
“Yeah.” I nod. “At least there's us.”
THE PROMISE RING
Chapel is on Wednesday. That's the way it's been since kindergarten,
and that's the way it will always be. It's part of the unspoken order of
Christian schools. Without thinking we bow our heads. Without
thinking we recite verses in weird dialects—thou and whosoever and
begotten. We pledge allegiance to the Christian flag. And first thing on
Wednesday mornings, we report dutifully to the auditorium, otherwise
known as the gym.
I slide into a folding chair next to Meg in the back row and prepare
to zone out. Later, during opening prayer, James takes the end seat
next to me. Jenn Hanson leads worship today, like she has since
freshman year, singing a version of Beyoncé's “Halo” with baby
subbed in for Jesus. Adam accompanies her on the acoustic guitar as
usual, his checkered Vans dangling as he perches on a stool, smiling
with his eyes closed while he sings. Then Mr. K gives us a spiel about
modesty, briefly citing something from Psalms but mostly making a
long, involved case against short skirts.
(The Hot Girls uniform is short jean skirts, Abercrombie
sweatshirts, and Rainbow flip-flops. Flip-flops even when it rains.
After first period, they're always caught and given a lecture about
Honoring God with Your Body, along with a pair of baggy gym shorts.
If someone is wearing gym shorts, they are a Hot Girl, their thongs
peeking out of the elastic waistband. It's almost better (hotter?), a
badge of sexy badness. Marissa started wearing those ridiculous
thongs last year, and I guess that's pretty much how I knew we were
doomed.)
James is dozing; his hair falls down into his face, and he lurches
his head up with a snoring noise. Meg is drawing pictures of dinosaurs
in the margins of her Spanish homework, completed early and
perfectly. I'm working on an assignment from Susan. Make a list of
things you like about yourself.
1. Good outfits!! Thrift store queen
2. Hilarious sometimes.
3. I get good grades.
“I'd like to read from Deuteronomy,” Pastor Tyler says soberly
under a spotlight onstage, and hundreds of vellum Teen Bible pages
flap their wings.
(I really don't like this guy. He says “rock on” all the time. Youth
pastors have such a look. His hair annoys me.)
“However, if you do not obey the Lord your God and do
not carefully follow all his commands and decrees I am
giving you today, all these curses will come on you and
overtake you:
You will be cursed in the city and cursed in the
country.
Your basket and your kneading trough will be cursed.
The fruit of your womb will be cursed, and the crops
of your land, and the calves of your herds and the lambs
of your flocks.
You will be cursed when you come in and cursed when
you go out.
The Lord will send on you curses, confusion, and
rebuke in everything you put your hand to, until you are
destroyed and come to sudden ruin because of the evil you
have done in forsaking him.”
Damn. Whoa, what? (Also, what is a kneading trough?) The Lord
is going in. This is why I haven't had the balls to read The Negro and
the Curse of Ham. I already feel Pastor Tyler's words needling into me
like a direct address. One word in particular: overtake. All these curses
will come on you and overtake you. That's how my depression feels.
I get that this is supposed to be a back-to-school “make good
choices” sermon, but it feels more aggressive than that. It's a reminder
that some people are better—it is easy for them to walk in the light,
follow the rules; it's their instinct to obey, to stay in line. The rest of us
deserve every curse that falls on us, all the hardship we shovel
through.
Suddenly something makes me jump in my seat, and I shiver.
Turns out it's just my phone buzzing in my lap: a text. I don't recognize
the number.
Two rows behind you.
Slowly I turn my head and scan the crowd. Immediately I spot
annoying Tim McCloud, smirking in a too-big button down, and give
him the evil eye. Ugh.
I text David instead. He says he's bored in English, talking about a
David Foster Wallace story. Of course, I seethe with jealousy at his
normal, real-world education.
We just watched the snl skit from this week.
Did you see it? With Tina Fay?
Oh awesome
*Fey
yeah, I CAN SEE RUSSIA FROM MY HOUSE!
So good! I can't believe Sarah Palin is real.
Yes!!!
I know she is truly unbelievable.
(Someone brought up Tina Fey's impression of Sarah Palin in AP
Gov yesterday, and Mr. K literally put his hand over his heart. As we
were leaving class, Jenn Hanson cornered me surreptitiously and
whispered, “I think I might be a Democrat, can you help me?” as if it
were a wasting disease or substance addiction.)
The spotlight on Pastor Tyler dims as he bows his head for closing
prayer.
Father God these teens are in danger every day. They are fighting
a war. Father I just pray that you give them the strength and
courage and discipline to be your soldiers in the face of
temptation. I pray they do not give in to earthly desires. Father
God I pray this in your Son Jesus's precious name. Amen.
We repeat in unison, well rehearsed: Amen. The room comes to.
On my way to the yearbook room I run into Class President Kelly
Kline at the center of a blindingly pink and bubbly cluster of girls from
our class. I nod “Hey,” and Jenn squeals, grabbing at me, and pulls
reluctant, emo me into the fold.
“Look!” Her blue eyes pierce with delight. “Adam gave Kelly a
promise ring!”
“What?”
“A promise ring.”
Kelly extends her left hand and I see it, thin and gold on her ring
finger.
“I don't get it. What does it mean?”
She lowers her voice, and seemingly her whole body. “You know,”
she whispers. “Don't have sex before marriage.”
“What?” Stacy Johnson squeaks in her valley girl pitch.
Kelly spits when she repeats, exasperated, “Don't have sex before
marriage!”
I cover my mouth as a laugh escapes. “Sorry.” I bow.
(Everyone is so obsessed with virginity—the teachers bring it up
multiple times a day. Sex, I mean. “Resisting urges.” There's a whole
lot of “saving yourself” and “save room for Jesus.” What's wrong with
having urges? You'd have to tighten all of your muscles and squeeze
your eyes shut for the rest of your life to resist sinning. How can that
be the good life?)
“So,” I clear my throat, “does this mean you're supposed to get
married? To each other?”
Kelly enacts the cartoon definition of swooning. Like, it's
disgusting how stoked she is to leap gleefully into a sexless marriage
with Adam; to give up on any life that isn't this one we're standing in
right now.
“They don't always mean you're getting married,” Jenn turns to
me. “It's more of a promise to yourself. My dad gave mine to me,
actually.”
“Wow.” I nod at the silver band on her hand, dotted with one ruby
gemstone. I spread my hand out before me, too, inexplicably.
Obviously, it is bare. “That's nice.”
The Promise Ring is also the name of an American indie-rock band
from the mid-nineties, whose iconic album Nothing Feels Good is one
of the quintessential emo records, but I don't say anything about that
stuff because no one cares.
—
At the end of the week, I'm exhausted. When I'm at school or in public,
there's a little drill sergeant in my head asking, What should you be
doing? I'm hyper-vigilant like a superspy, constantly nervous about
whether or not I'm blending in, whether or not I'm being too me and
not enough them.
At home, I wish I were invisible. I wish my family didn't see me as
a massive cloud of gloom and difficulty hanging over every room,
every daily routine. I wish I felt nothing, but I'm on fire with anger and
discomfort and a whiny pitiful temper. I keep to myself, and I hope my
family knows that my silence means I'm sorry. Means Forgive me.
This is my curse. (This, and Tim McCloud's creepy leers, and
Marissa attached at the hip to Jordan Jacobsen, reveling in her dumb
new life. This and the unrelenting sun.)
Over the weekend, waiting for a torrent of Interpol's Turn On the
Bright Lights to download, I flip lazily around The Negro and the
Curse of Ham, which is indeed an independently published text
promoting the beliefs of the Church of Latter-Day Saints.
Could there really be a link between blackness and sin? The whole
idea is offensive, but it still creeps me out, because as long as even one
person believes it, there is a sliver of justification for how I feel. A
reason for my pain, according to someone else.
One of my pet peeves is questions that aren't really questions,
questions that inherently imply an answer. So, like, “Are black people
cursed with dark skin and slavery?” It's a question that works kind of
like a jingle; it gets stuck in your head until the only answer is yes.
Apparently, according to this particular book, Noah's son Ham, whose
name means “dark,” was cursed by Noah to become “a servant of
servants.” The story goes that Ham's descendants became the “negro”
race. Hence, slavery. Something like that.
Like we deserve whatever curses fall on our heads. Like we never
stood a chance from the very beginning.
TIM
Tim is just a guy, basically. A stocky know-it-all from Mock Trial.
It was all planned out over instant messages, our “casual hookup”
last spring. His idea.
I am a curious person and studious, and I approached giving him a
blowjob as such. I let him put his pale hand under my Joy Division Tshirt. At first it was gross, then it was exciting, then it was boring.
I guess this is a story about how I ended up in the orange groves in
the backseat of Tim McCloud's car in the first place.
—
He said I was the cutest black girl he's ever seen.
—
The rows and rows of orange groves, how you can almost taste the
zest, how something so simply wonderful and bright can always be
growing in spite of you—that's something I like about it here.
THE YELLOW NOTEBOOK
Kelly Kline may or may not have “kind of” had sex, promise ring be
damned, and now she's convinced she's pregnant. She confesses her
sin to Meg and me while we're standing casually by the lockers waiting
for the bell before AP Biology, freshly paper bag–covered textbooks
cradled close to our chests. “Last Thursday,” she lowers her head in
shame.
Meg gracelessly stuffs a fistful of blueberry muffin into her mouth.
“Dude, it's only Tuesday.”
“What about the promise ring?” I realize. “Didn't he just give that
to you last week?” Maybe it had been like an invitation, a justification.
A virginity loophole, like blowjobs.
“I know!” she shrieks, darting her eyes around. “And now my
period is a day late!”
“Wait, hold on,” I ask, certain that Sunday School has taught her
nothing. “What do you mean, ‘kind of'?”
What she describes is somewhere between second and third base. I
roll my eyes.
“Well, first of all, I'm pretty sure that's not how pregnancy works.
Or sex, even.”
Kelly Kline is a sucker. She can be cool and fun, but she is also
ridiculous. She's been talking about her wedding since middle school.
While Meg, James, and I sit sulking and stage-whispering in the back
of the auditorium during chapel, she's right up front singing all of the
worship songs, gazing up at Adam spot-lit on stage singing with his
eyes closed, like he's the Evangelical Dashboard Confessional.
I wish I could say I'm surprised. But I could definitely see her
falling for the whole sensitive prayer-group-leader thing. Feeling the
spirit.
“You know what to do,” I say over the bell. “Talk later?”
She nods dutifully.
I reach into my locker and pull out a yellow spiral notebook. It's
slim and bent. Spelled out in Sharpie on the cover, and positioned next
to a smiley face sticker, is the title: Love Lives, Rarr! Names of
approved authors are documented in a small column on the left-hand
side of the cover: Meg + Kelly, and + James + Morgan. I present it to
Kelly in my open palms, an offering, an invitation for communion.
Like everyone else, we've been writing tons of notes since school
started. For the most part, they're standard issue: Jordan looks cute
today (James); I can't believe Mr. K told me to be quiet AGAIN in
Government (me); I just discovered this band The Clash, they're so
punk (Kelly); Where should we go for lunch (Meg)? Notes (and conotes and group notes) can be literally anything—a list of Friday night
ideas; someone's weekend summary; a few random pleasantries on a
page Meg used to practice drawing hearts; Are you mad at me? on the
back of a someone's Bible homework.
The Yellow Notebook is in a league completely apart from that
stuff—it is absolutely reserved for discussion of honest-to-god crushes
and significant romantic developments related to said crushes. The
Yellow Notebook was founded with a mission statement. It's a piece of
literature, a living archive, in the spirit of all the rom-coms we say we
hate, the spirit of a Jane Austen novel. It exists to celebrate the
unfolding of the story of love. Sagas. Confessions. Wishes. Questions.
Kelly's been dating Adam since their youth group went on a
mission trip to Mexico the summer after freshman year, and he's super
boring, so she doesn't have a lot to say. What with the promise ring
and all. But that's just too bad for her.
(Last week, when she tried to slip in some comments about a
Gilmore Girls episode, I immediately wrote, in the margins, “The
Yellow Notebook is not the place for Gilmore Girls gossip. Write a
separate note for that crap.” She wrote, I'm sorry! I promise not to do
it again, Morgan. Then she proceeded to write a separate note for the
Gilmore Girls gossip. I don't watch the show.)
The Yellow Notebook—and romance—is strictly business, and
serious.
—
Kelly basically kidnaps Meg and me from the yearbook room at
lunchtime, forehead dotted with sweat, backpack sagging off her tiny
frame. She's, like, waiting at the door.
“Lunch?” she begs.
I sigh and nod. “Yeah, okay.”
Meg blurts out a condition. “We're getting Del Taco.”
Kelly has clearly committed to this whole drama. Instead of asking
us to lend her money, like she often does, she demands we pay for her
lunch because she's “eating for two.” I'm not letting this go any
further.
The whole drive to Del Taco, Kelly worries out loud. I put on
MGMT.
Meg groans. “Oh my Lord, you are not pregnant, Kelly! There's
nothing to freak out about.”
“My period was supposed to come two whole days ago, and it's
pretty much always on time I think.”
“Just chill,” Meg replies. “Tacos will cure all.”
“Seriously, Kelly,” I say casually. “Sometimes my period is five
days early. Sometimes it's a full week late. I don't know. Periods are
weird! I used to throw up every month when I got mine.”
Kelly shoots me a quizzical look and laughs, like she's not sure why
she's laughing.
Meg yawns, puts on her knockoff Ray-Bans. “Great. Let's drop it
and have fun being fatties. I'm having a chicken burrito.”
“Hello ma'am welcoming to Del Taco can I take your order?”
I have to maneuver my torso halfway out of Rudy to get close
enough to the little drive-thru speaker because I'm so low to the
ground, and top-heavy. It is no easy feat to get my boobs over the car
window.
(By the way, that's yet another insecurity: my boobs came way too
soon. In fourth grade, just a year before my period. I leveled up from a
training bra with lightning speed, traded it in for a wide-strapped
monstrosity that was impossible to hide under spaghetti straps, which
was what all the cool girls wore, with Limited Too roll-on glitter
applied to their flat chests. Nothing has ever been easy for me.)
(My period also had impeccable timing, announcing itself on white
board shorts during a class field trip to the water park.)
“Anyway, you're not pregnant. Just take a test if you're worried,” I
say, grabbing our bag of deluxe chili cheese fries, chicken burritos, and
a bunch of tacos from a pimply middle-aged man.
Meg squeals a little. “I cannot believe you actually had sex! What
about your chastity ring?”
“Yeah!” I gasp. “Didn't you just get it?”
I'm trying my best not to laugh because I know it's not funny that
Kelly is completely riddled with guilt and despair. I get it, but also, I
don't. What's the big deal?
“We were—we still are—saving ourselves for each other. But then
he came over after church, and my mom wasn't home, and we just got
caught up in the heat of the moment. It didn't feel wrong. We're in
love.”
I just shake my head noiselessly as we head back to school. Meg
sings “Mr. Roboto” to herself.
“Hey you guys? No one can know about this. And not just the
pregnancy scare. No one can know that I'm immoral.”
“Oh, come on! You are super good at following the Bible. You just
have a boyfriend you looooove!” I tease, trying to lighten the mood
before she starts throwing verses at us.
“Yeah we need to know more,” Meg raises her eyebrows. “You
better be writing details in the Notebook.”
“Do you really think I should take a pregnancy test?”
“Yes, absolutely, without a doubt. Then you can just move on.”
“Will you go with me? After school? Please?” That baby voice she
uses for casual manipulation.
I look into the rearview at Meg—we had plans to do homework at
my house—and she rolls her eyes, giving the go ahead.
“Sure, okay.”
Meg and I are anxious to get out of the car as soon as we park.
There's just enough time before lunch is over to eat our Del Taco in
peace on the benches by Mr. Howard's room.
“Okay, meet us here after your last class,” Meg commands.
“Got it. One more thing, guys?”
“What.” We don't even turn around.
“I still don't have any cash. You know, for the thing?”
“I know,” I shout back. Obviously, what I'm doing today is paying
for a virgin's pregnancy test, because this is my life.
“Oh, this is fan-tastic,” Meg says to me, giddy under her breath.
“Did she really use the phrase ‘eating for two'?”
I didn't want to say anything because I didn't want you guys to
think I'm a whore. He didn't cum, he just put it in for a minute.
But we didn't use a condom. Anyway, I'm pretty much still a
virgin under technicalities. And yes, we're getting married and
we're madly in love.
Somehow after school we—rather, I—manage to scrape money
together to buy a home pregnancy test. The plan is to pile into my car
and head to my house where we can put the invented crisis to rest over
a couple of iced teas.
We go to the Thrifty's between Waldenbooks and Honey Baked
Ham. Since I'm still a virgin (not counting blowjobs) and stranded at
Vista without Sex Ed, I know nothing about pregnancy tests—which
one is best, or whatever. Meg and I linger dumbfounded in the aisle
full of brand labels. Kelly waits at a counter for ice cream. (In her
defense, they do have amazingly good mint chip, but I'm still baffled at
the distribution of efforts among us.)
I text David.
Today is out of control.
What's up?
Just cursed. I can't believe my life. You?
Eating chips.
Amazing.
Sorry ur smited. Will new music help?
YES
Check ur email girlie. And clear your calendar on Saturday. We have a mission.
“Well,” I hang an arm around Meg and hold up the first box I see.
“Should we just get this one? I think I've seen it on a commercial.”
My parents aren't home, and Malcolm is still at JV football practice,
but for whatever reason the three of us still guiltily dart up the stairs to
my room when we get to my house. When she isn't mouthing “oh my
god” and “WTF” to me, Meg's being extra motherly with Kelly, super
responsible, which is great because I can't stop thinking about David,
and I really just want to gush and wonder about him.
Meg slowly reads every instruction on the pink and white package
before handing it over to Kelly and sending her to the bathroom. She
walks out silently, eyes focused soberly on the carpet, and closes the
door to my room behind her.
“This is completely ridiculous,” I say to Meg, and she laughs,
taking a glug of her Arizona Iced Tea. Kelly is an absolute wreck a few
feet away, but it's hard to be sympathetic when I know that no real
crises exist in her world—her world makes sure of it. Also, I know what
sex is.
Kelly isn't like me. I want the truth, even at my own risk. The coals
of hatred I harbor for my town, my school—ugh, even the very ideas of
babies and marriage and church and sidewalks—are really simmering,
turning golden brown on each side like chicken skin, but I still live
here. I don't know why I humor Kelly, but it feels important. She needs
rules, and right and wrong, and guilt. Who am I to pull the
comfortable rug from under Kelly's feet, or anyone's? She's happy, and
that's more than I can say for myself.
Because this is not a Bible story, Kelly's test is negative. We allow
her to put on a show of relief before Meg moves our lives along: “Now
can we talk about boys?”
“Ooh!” I jump up, remembering. “Let's see what music David
sent.”
“Da-vid,” Meg teases, and I feel myself blush brown.
“It's not like that!” I connect my laptop to my little portable
speakers and pull up David's email. Kelly and Meg giggle and make
faces behind my back. The subject line is love lockdown. “Oh, it's the
new Kanye West. I haven't heard it.”
“Put it on,” says Meg. “Kelly?”
“Kelly doesn't really like rap, right? We don't have to if you don't
wanna.”
“No, I'm, uh, down! I like Kanye West I think.”
Kelly is hilarious. “K.”
I join them back on the floor, knee to knee on our little island of
school supplies and massive cans of tea, cell phones and ponytail
holders. Meg starts pulling books and binders out of her bag and we all
strategize our various homework assignments or whatever, a little
getting-stuff-done montage, scored by David Santos and Kanye West.
After a while I blurt, “We don't have to keep listening to this,”
because I am not enjoying this album at all.
KELLY ISN'T PREGNANT so I'm gonna talk about David and
his stubble
You guys, our lives are so ironic! When I talked to Adam he
was happy and relieved. But he felt embarrassed that I told you
guys that his penis was big and that doing it was difficult.
I still haven't thrown away the test. It's in my car, and I
don't know what to do with it!
James writes:
Congrats Kelly. Use condoms!!!! : )
Meg writes:
UM, THROW AWAY YOUR TRASH
This is the beginning of the end with Kelly, as far as I'm concerned.
The thing about a Kelly is they will always be fine. They want whatever
they already have. I want that other thing, whatever it is.
MAKE A LIST OF THINGS YOU HATE ABOUT
YOURSELF
It's getting a little bit better. Like I'm not bursting into tears every day,
but every once in a while, something totally random—forgetting to roll
up my car window, the question How are you—sends me into a whole
spiral thing, like: I'm worthless, I'm ugly, I'm weird, no one likes me,
no one understands me, what is the point of all this.
At therapy this week, I told Susan I wish I could be more like other
girls. Marissas and Kellys and Jennifers and Ashleys. They never seem
to worry about more than the usual high school stuff. Surface-level
stuff, worries that will eventually go away. They've always been like
that; their mothers are like that. They won't change. They could never
carry what I do.
I really just want to be one of those wispy-haired, flat-chested girls
from the dELiA*s catalogue who probably never poops or aches,
doesn't have to tug and twist at clothes to fit right. (Having my boobs
just means I can't wear basically any dress from Urban Outfitters. It's
all T-shirts from Goodwill for me, my too-heavy, too-adult boobs
stretching out the cotton in front.)
“What do you think is the difference between you and them?”
Susan asked. (Being a psychiatrist looks pretty easy to me; it's just
asking hella trick questions.) “How are your struggles different?”
“Well, I guess I think I must deserve it.”
It wasn't the right answer, I could tell.
STRANGE, FRUIT
Saturday begins like a Rilo Kiley song, twinkling and sunbathed. The
world around me is full of promise and faith. When I wake up to the
sound of a lawn mower and feel my body, I'm an interruption, a pock
ruining the whole scene. Out in the perfectly content cul-de-sac, my
dad is cutting the grass at the same time as the neighbor dad. My dad
and the Smith dad discuss types of fences and gossip about other
people on the block. Boring stuff. The neighbor dad gives my dad
advice on how to trim the ivy around our doorway. I rub my eyes and
breathe before swinging myself from the bed. I can do this.
I really hope my dad doesn't trim the ivy, no matter how good it is
for the house or the plant. I want to keep something growing wild
around my window, almost creeping in through the sill to choke me.
Or rescue me.
Downstairs, I go straight for the coffee pot. Dad's now on the
couch slurping cut fruit from a paper plate, Nike T-shirt soaked with
sweat, socks and tennis shoes in a little pile on the carpet next to him.
I wonder if he went to an early morning spin class on his way home
from the fire station.
“Hey,” I mutter sleepily, feeling awkward for no reason. I try to be
careful with my family. I understand that over the past few months, I
have inadvertently put them through hell.
“Hey, Morgan, have some of that fruit salad. The honeydew is
bitchin'. Super sweet.”
“Oh, nice. I'm fine for now. I'll have some later, though.”
I take my mug into the family room and fold my legs underneath
me on the other side of the sectional. He smiles at me with his mouth
closed, jiggling one of his legs, an annoying habit. When I make a face
at them he says, “Sorry.” We don't know how to be, with each other.
(My dad and I could not be more different. When he's at home,
and not at the fire station, we don't talk much. He used to be home
more, when Malcolm and I were little, and Mom worked full time. He
drove on all our field trips, the lone dad among all the moms. He took
us to Baskin-Robbins after school, our little routine—Gold Medal
Ribbon for Dad, Rainbow Sherbet for Malcolm, Mint Chocolate Chip
for me. Now Mom stays home, and Dad takes all the overtime he can.
Last year he worked on Thanksgiving, and we went to the fire station
to eat store-bought pumpkin pie with all the other guys on duty and
their families.)
(I'm pretty sure my dad hoped his first child would be a boy, or at
least a different kind of girl. Kelsey was the other frontrunner for my
name. I can't imagine being that girl.)
“How'd you sleep?” He sucks at his teeth, some lingering piece of
citrus or pineapple.
“Pretty good I guess. You? Were you on calls all night?”
“It was up and down. I got a few hours here and there. Wasn't too
bad.”
“That's good.”
Between our silence, a grid of talking heads blares from the TV.
First, it's SportsCenter or something, then there's some election
coverage.
“What're you watching?”
“Nothing. You can change it.” He sends the remote gliding over the
couch's leather.
“I just really hate Sarah Palin,” I announce, my voice too defiant.
“I'm so sick of her, man.” He shakes his head. “Guys at work, you
know, they're all about the guns, they love the whole ‘maverick' thing.
They're just scared to have a brother in the White House.”
“I know. Racist white people are always so scared,” I sigh, going to
GUIDE. “There's probably a Law & Order on.”
“You know there is!” (There always is.)
Munch has just made a one-line quip about murder, and the iconic
song begins. We both bob our heads to it instinctually. (Our family
kinda loves this song. Malcolm and I sometimes play the air flute
during the bridge.)
Our relationship isn't one of contempt or anything; it's more like
my dad looks at me with total confusion. As I get more and more
depressed, as I move further and further inward, toward books and
punk politics and thick black eyeliner, I think he's less and less able to
understand me. It's not my fault or his—to him, I just do not compute.
(“The only thing I know about is sports and hard work,” my dad
likes to say. “That's my thing.” And even though I've told him—almost
accusingly—I know that's not the whole truth, it's another reason I just
wish I were regular, easier to understand. Another thing I hate about
myself.)
“I better go get showered.” I stand up and stretch as the show ends
on a super-long close-up of Olivia Benson's steely, out-of-breath
countenance.
“Hey, what are you doin' today? I gotta drop Malcolm off at the
skate park later, thought we could go get some mochas at Starbucks.”
It's totally random, but then again so is everything about how my
family treats me since the incident.
“Oh. I'm actually hanging out with my friend from art class in a
little bit.”
“Oh good, good. That's cool. Maybe we can go tomorrow then.”
“Sure, yeah.” I nod too many times. “Okay.”
He pops a watermelon square into his mouth, slurps mercilessly. It
makes me giggle to myself all the way upstairs.
—
I still have a couple of hours before David picks me up. I should do
homework, but instead I'm listening to Cat Power and researching
curses, fingers crossed the internet will be like You're totally crazy
everything's fine high school just sucks. I search “types of curses” and
click the second result, because I irrationally believe that the second
result is always more credible than the first. It looks academic enough.
There are three types of curses: (1) Biblical curses (2) Witchcraft
curses (3) Curses by people.
Ugh, I don't know what's going on with me. I read the site until I
can't stand the terrible grammar anymore, click around for a while,
somehow end up at “see also: if the world hates you.” Slam my laptop
shut.
Meg texts a single link to a five-minute video of hippos eating
watermelons.
I hope you have fun today dude, she follows up. Wear the good
bra. I grin idiotically, with my whole heart. (Maybe this year will be
okay?)
I am just friends with David Santos and so I am really trying very
hard not to completely flip out about hanging out with David Santos. I
keep reminding myself about his ex, how she's probably quiet and
uncomplicated, with long white-girl hair and lip gloss. Still, he's so
cute and cool, I know that hanging out with him will give me big fat
restless butterflies.
The story about David Santos has a pop-punk soundtrack: moody,
earnest, energizing, fun. He's a junior at Highland Valley, a public
school and a completely different world, but our tectonic plates click
together with snarky texts about Wes Anderson movies and guacamole
recipes (which is a very intimate and important topic for Southern
California natives). Sometimes we chat all day, about nothing special.
It's like we're always hanging out.
I wear: my Smith's T-shirt from Hot Topic, with the green
lettering; camel-colored wool pencil skirt from the vintage store in
Riverside; black Dr. Marten's Mary Janes that barely pinch my feet
(but they were seven dollars!). I flip my hair with my mom's biggest
curling iron. Put on purple eyeliner. Say my affirmations. I am in
control. I am not crazy. I am cute. I feel good. Take my medicine. Slip
my bottle of Xanax into my tote bag just in case.
I go downstairs to look out for David from the living room window.
I don't want him to ring the doorbell and have to do A Whole Thing.
My dad's wiping the kitchen counters and half-ignoring the Law &
Order marathon. When I hear a car parking, I rush a goodbye hug and
run out of the house.
David's walking up the driveway when I intercept him. “Hi!” I
squeak. (So awkward.)
“Hello, madam. You ready?” He is wearing black jeans and a black
T-shirt and is adorable.
I give a thumbs-up and my signature exaggerated smile.
“Nice shirt.” He nods, and I'm too liquid to respond.
David Santos is driving his mom's old station wagon, unironically.
With his Ramones bumper sticker and the yellowed paperbacks
strewn in the backseat, it actually looks cool.
After he opens the passenger-seat door for me (!) and we both
buckle our seat belts, I sit quietly, buzzing with nerves and trying
desperately not to move. My goal is to be stone. He whistles something
while he fusses with the knobs for the AC, the CD player, the side-view
mirrors, the seat back. And finally, he starts the car.
“This is an excellent song,” he says as we pull away from the curb.
He fist-pumps the air.
It's the White Stripes. “You're Pretty Good Looking (For a Girl)”
from De Stijl.
“Ugh, I know, this whole album is so good!” (Dude, relax, I chant
to myself.)
David drums the steering wheel. His energy is like a fourteen. I
don't know where we're going or what we're about to do, and that is
totally freaking killing me, but I'm way too nervous to ask anything.
“So. Morgan. Are you ready for the mission?”
He smiles as we slow to a stop sign. He looks over at me, and I
make it a point to look back at him. His eyes are an annoyingly calm
blue, crystal and sort of gray, the foggy waters of another world. I fall
in.
“Let's break this curse.”
THE EXORCISM OF MORGAN PARKER
My good old panic, this familiar terror. I wish I could explain, but it's
like there are no exact words. Every single interaction is potentially
hazardous. Medicated, unmedicated, important, frivolous—everything
could be a second away from destroying me. I swear we can both
totally hear my heart pounding with nerves.
But the day has decided to be epic.
“Okay, first thing's first,” David takes a deep breath, flings a hand
off the wheel into the middle console, and starts rummaging. It's full of
all kinds of random stuff. Candy wrappers, supermarket discount
cards, sticky pennies. The car is brimming with stuff, evidence of
aliveness.
David finally fishes out a jewel case and solemnly presents it to
me. “I made you a mix.”
(I am dying! But I try to hide it. This is unquestionably the first
time a guy has ever made me a mix, and it is, in my book, significant.
Above making out on the romance scale. Like, John Cusack in Say
Anything level.)
Scrawled on the notebook paper insert in he-did-his-best
handwriting is: The Exorcism of Morgan Parker. David catches my
eyebrows leap up at the title.
“Not that you're like, possessed,” he rushes. “Just like, you know,
that movie. Maybe it was a bad joke. It's just a weird thing I do.”
I laugh; his tension escapes through the car windows.
“No, it's rad!” I flip over the case but it's blank. “No track list?”
“Well this is Wolf Parade, ‘It's a Curse.' Another stupid joke.
Anyway, and I'll write it down for you later, but every single moment
starting now will be a surprise.”
The sentence resonates in a super-deep way, like he's not just
talking about the CD, he's talking about life. Our life, together. It
occurs to me that he put a lot of thought into this, into today. Does he
think I am “pretty good looking (for a girl)”?
(Now playing: my spiral of self-doubt. Why would anyone want me
when simple-minded, skinny blonds in flip-flops and jean skirts are
running around everywhere like extras from The O.C.?)
“Thanks so much.” I peel my hand from my lap and reach toward
his arm but then chicken out. (How do you flutter your eyelids, by the
way? Are we sure it looks cool?) Leaning into the headrest, I try to look
softly at him—just smiling creepily. His warm tan complexion, that
curly hair, how his eyes are always smiling. I watch the muscles in his
arms as he steers.
“You are super welcome! So, here's my proposition,” he claps.
“Soul Searching.”
I nod. “Okay. Yeah, this sounds right. Where do I start? And also,
where are we going?”
“Two, I have no idea and I am literally just driving around until we
get to the bottom of this. And one, well, if you feel like the universe has
cursed you, you for sure need some kind of come-to-Jesus moment.
Like maybe a baptism? Or a re-baptism or something, I don't know
your life.”
I reply almost reflexively, practiced from years of probing from
teachers, moms, youth group leaders: “I was baptized Catholic as a
baby.”
“So?”
“Yeah, I don't really know what that does. I didn't do communion.
We don't really go to Catholic church anymore.”
Services at the Catholic church across town (closer to where we
used to live, and closer to “the hood” as my parents say), where I was
baptized, are extremely and intentionally boring, and no one can really
understand what the priest is saying because he's like two hundred
years old. When our family went, mostly on holidays, Malcolm and I
always fell asleep or played games too loudly in the pews. The
congregation is mostly black and Mexican, people with major troubles
asking for prayer. It's real to them. When they say suf ering, I
understand. It isn't about restriction, and it isn't about threat.
Everything's not some episode of 7th Heaven. It's life and death. It's
survival.
I actually did go to one communion class but was disappointed in
the lack of discipline among the other students, and plus, I didn't
know any Spanish. I was even in the choir, which I quit because I am a
horrible singer, and also because the rest of the choir were senior
citizens. I've given a lot of things a try.
“I mean, it wasn't bad, I guess,” I add, catching some breeze on my
cheek from the open window. “It was just sooo boring. I didn't really
feel it, you know?”
David laughs. “Jeez, yeah, I do know what you mean. It wasn't for
you.”
“Nothing's for me,” I mutter before I have time to censor myself.
“Or maybe I just haven't found my thing. Whatever it is doesn't grow
in this town.”
I suck in a big, meditative breath, choosing my words. David stays
quiet, nods.
“But I need to believe in something. I have to believe something's
on my side. That's how people do this life thing, right? At least I think
so.”
“Yes! Now we're talking. Optimism looks good on you. I've never
seen it before.”
I laugh and kick my feet up on the dusty dash. He's right. A teeny
bolt of hopefulness darts up my spine.
“So let's expand that worldview, kid,” he says, business-like. “Find
you some salvation.”
“I don't even know where to look. I mean, this is what we're
working with,” I wave my hand at the intersection: two churches, a
bakery that's always closed, a store called Tuesday Morning that sells
who knows what if not orthodontist appointments.
“Wait a minute, this is coming from the self-proclaimed nerdiest
teenager in America?”
“You're so right, I did proclaim that.”
“Yep. You're gonna love this place.” He whips out of a cul-de-sac
and heads to the freeway.
David knows a bookstore that is neither Mormon nor a Barnes &
Noble. (Do I mind taking a little ride? Abso-freaking-lutely not!)
In traffic on the 91, I'm chastising myself for not preparing
conversation topics when David turns down the music and blurts, “So
—” He says it so loud we both laugh uncomfortably. “Uh, so, we go to a
Catholic church once a year, when my grandma makes us. It's
definitely pretty boring.”
“That sucks.” I cross and uncross my legs. “Is she super religious?”
“Kind of, yeah. Well, no—” He flip-flops his hand, thinking aloud
to himself. “She likes tradition. Saying the rosary, Ash Wednesday,
stuff like that.”
“Yeah…like the rituals?” He nods empathically and in spite of
myself I keep talking. “I was really into the holy water. I liked feeling
special; I always liked the idea of communion. The symbolism, I guess.
I don't know if that makes sense.”
I badly wanted to drink the sip of juice and eat the wafer. I wanted
in on the whole ceremony. My favorite part of Catholic church was
always leaving—crossing ourselves with holy water and shaking the
hand of the sweet old priest before being let out into the warm sun, a
procession of the blessed.
“Yeah, exactly. The symbols, the rituals. My grandma's really
spiritual about that stuff, which I think is cool. She's not like You're
gonna burn in hell or anything like that.” He snorts. “She's, like, a
grandma.”
“Ha,” I laugh softly. “No, that would be everyone at my school.”
“Dang.” His dark brow furrows; those eyes have the nerve to look
silently into my hurt. “That's wild.”
“It's…yeah, it's something. It's like everything is about judgment.
Or about being ‘pure.' I don't…feel like that.” (Maybe I don't even want
to.)
“Have you ever thought about Buddhism?”
“Hm. I mean I know Allen Ginsberg was into it, and I did get really
into Siddhartha,” I remember, then roll my eyes. “But I don't want to
be like one of those white girls at Coachella who wears…” I gesture to
my forehead.
(I don't want to say the wrong thing. I hate how little I know about
the world. How few histories and cultures I get to learn about, too
bombarded with all the missionary narratives at school. How little I'm
allowed to know.)
“A bindi?”
“Yes, that's it! I'm sorry, they don't teach us much in White People
Studies.”
He laughs; it's throaty and exhaustive.
“Sorry, that was messed up. I actually love white people.” (If I had
a dollar for every time I've said I love white people in my seventeen
years of life, I would be able to buy an original press edition of Sonic
Youth's double LP Dirty on eBay.)
“I mean, I'm not white”—he grins in my direction—“so we can keep
it between us.”
I don't know what to do with the beat in the conversation, so I just
sit there and wait for him to speak. Susan has me trying “stillness” and
“mindfulness,” even though I told her I'm not built for it, that it
actually increases my anxiety.
“My mom's Mexican and white, and my dad's black. He's lightskinned, though,” he says, by way of explanation for his own particular
shade, hints of butterscotch in coffee ice cream.
“Oh, cool.”
“Yeah, I like them all right.”
“Are they religious?”
“Not really. My mom grew up Catholic, but my dad's an atheist.”
“What about you?”
“I'm nothing. Maybe I'm somewhere in between. But I mostly
think…we're alive, and then we're dead.”
His phone buzzes loudly in the cup holder, clinks against some
loose change.
“Oh, it's just my cousin. Do you mind?” He puts it on speaker.
They have a little choreographed greeting, where one goes Wasssuppp
and the other goes YoYoYoYoYo, like in a buddy comedy.
“Before you say anything,” David shouts into the phone, “you are
on speakerphone right now, and I have a friend in the car and yes that
friend is a girl, so just—”
“Oh-ho! Well, hi, David's friend.”
“Hi,” I squeak, tilting my head as if it would have any bearing on
the quality of the phone call.
“That's my friend Morgan,” David establishes. “So what's up,
buddy?”
“K, real quick, are you coming over for Rosh Hashanah?”
“Oh, I totally forgot about it.” We hit another stretch of traffic,
ending our six minutes of smooth sailing. David's head flings back like
the top of a Pez dispenser and he emits a quiet groan. “When is it?”
“Saturday the eighth. Just write that down. Actually, I'll just text it
to you. Will you remember to bring those Vonnegut novels?”
“Already in the glove box.”
“And my Freaks and Geeks DVDs, and my Joy Division T-shirt?”
“All right, all right, I get it.”
“Sorry, I'm going. Nice to meet you, Morgan!” Not gonna lie, his
voice sounds pretty hot.
“Love you bye,” David says, ending the call, which is adorable. He
smiles apologetically at me across the sticky console. “So, sorry about
that.”
“No, don't worry about it!” Too eager, always so eager. I try to
lean back in my seat coolly, but you can imagine how that went.
David's not paying attention anyway—he's pumping his fist because
traffic is moving, finally.
“So that's my cousin, he's cool. Also, he's Jewish. Hence, Rosh
Hashanah. We always have dinner at his house for Jewish holidays.”
“That's cool. I actually just realized—I don't know any Jewish
people.”
“Seriously? How is that possible?”
“Where would I meet them? Not at a school thing. There are no
Jewish people at my school—zero, even less than black people.”
“I thought it was ‘nondenominational.' ”
“Oh, they just say that.”
“So, you really don't believe any of it?”
“I don't think I believe in sins, or at least not the sins in the Bible.
Sins sending you to hell.” (Or maybe I do. I just want to find out for
myself.) “Who is this?”
“The Microphones.” He keeps quickly turning his face to mine, and
I do not think I am imagining how it keeps softening, becoming
more…something. More knowable. He does this squinty smile thing
that I am obsessed with; it makes me want to know everything about
him.
“This mix is really, really good, David, I love it!”
“Yes! I'm so happy. I hope you like this bookstore too, I think
you're gonna. Wanna get some coffee after?”
“Totally.”
The next song is one of my favorites, “KC Accidental,” from Broken
Social Scene's You Forgot It in People, which is another album I think
is pretty perfect. I feel special. (And this is what I mean—the part of
me that makes it impossible to enjoy this feeling, to live this feeling
without ruining it with the terror part of my brain—that's the curse I
need to lift.)
“Hey.” He nods toward the glove compartment. “Open it. Check it
out.”
Shoved in there with a broken pair of aviator sunglasses and an
empty Milk Duds box are two paperbacks. “Oh cool. I've actually never
read any Kurt Vonnegut.”
“He's so great! In that one, Cat's Cradle, he actually invents his
own religion. It's bonkers.”
“Really?”
“Yeah, it's called bokononism. It's a whole thing; there's something
about feet? It's hilarious, and it kinda points out how, you know, all
religions are random, anyway. It's just people believing whatever lies
they need to in order to deal. Basically ‘ignorance is bliss' or
whatever.”
“Whoa.” I squint. “Not the worst idea. Maybe I'll invent my own
religion. I didn't think you could just do that but, why not, I guess.”
David slaps the dashboard in exclamation. “Genius!”
He lightly jabs my arm and steers us toward the exit lane.
“This really is the beginning of something,” he says, and I laugh a
little bit, because I don't want to say anything to ruin the perfection of
the moment, the airiness, the comfort I completely forgot is even
possible.
On You Forgot It in People, there is the incredibly satisfying
sequence of songs following “KC Accidental,” so unstoppably beautiful
that by the time you get to “Looks Just Like the Sun,” you believe it.
This is a story about my day with David. He is amazing and we
hung out for like 6 hours. We went to a cool bookstore in
downtown Riverside and sat on the floor and read and laughed
really loud, then we went to Coffee Bean. I got iced green tea
and he got some kind of frozen chocolate thing and I told him he
messed up. (But later he was like: next time I'll get tea, so I
was like hmmm next time?) So anyway, we just walked around
there for 2 hours talking. We talked about everything and I'll
fill you guys in more later but he doesn't like eggs! Isn't that
weird. It wasn't mega awkward, but it was a little bit. I don't
know! AHHH! Could I fall in like? I don't think he really likes me
like that. When he dropped me off at home, he was like “You're
not so bad, Miss Morgan. This was fun.” And then…he shook my
fucking hand. Sadface.
HOW TO BE BLACK AND MILD
“I know, right?” says one pretty-much-my-age white girl on TV to
another, looking over the middle console of a convertible. They are
discussing sunglasses. For at least seven minutes. A gust of night
breeze whooshes and puffs at my open window.
I am at my desk starting a fresh new notebook. The Black
Notebook. I cut out a story title from NYLON that says “Black Magic
Woman” and collaged it on the front with photos of Langston Hughes
(basically one of the only poets I like) and Zora Neale Hurston. I don't
know what to write on the first page, so I've mindlessly been doodling
patterns of lines and circles. A new notebook is always so much
pressure, and I want this one to be special. I want it to be dedicated to
truth and discovery.
I wonder if I need organized religion at all. Like, if it were up to me
to choose, not my parents or my school. I don't want to send myself to
hell or anything, but Christianity hasn't made me feel at home, only
guilty and afraid. There must be some other way to be saved,
protected, forgiven. To eliminate the constant threat of hell.
Notes for the Beliefs of Morgan Parker:
Religious & Otherwise
—Darkness isn't a bad thing.
—Don't follow rules you don't understand.
—You can escape.
—There is a lot of stuff that no one knows. (Like what happens
when you die.) Don't trust know-it-alls.
David texts just then: Yo what's up?
I lunge for the Yellow Notebook and scribble: ADDENDUM: HE
JUST TEXTED. I go back to the Black Notebook and write
—Anything can happen.
I'm about to craft my witty, chill response back to David,
something like “everything and nothing” or “will you marry me,” when
I'm startled by a loud rapping at the front door. It's a little weird for
the time of night, but our neighbors are always coming over
unexpectedly to “gently” complain about where we park our cars or
sell wrapping paper for their kid's whiffle ball team, or whatever other
boring thing. My mom's already asleep, but my dad's downstairs
watching Sunday Night Football, so I am off the hook for getting the
door.
The knocking gets harder and louder. Which means it can't be
Linda from down the street, no way. I peek through my dusty blinds,
careful to keep my face hidden. Is that a cop car? Either something
isn't right, or something exciting is happening. Butterflies swim laps in
my belly, and I rush to the top of the banister as my dad answers the
door.
Facing him is Malcolm, his Abercrombie polo shirt collar in the
hands of a uniformed policeman. The man has a round face and a red
mustache. His eyes are slits, obscuring any emotion. He and Malcolm
have almost the exact same height and shape (tall, lean, and strong),
but one's figure exudes threat, and the other, submission.
“Is this the Parker residence,” the guy bellows.
“Yes, sir. What's the problem?”
My dad, usually so affable and casual, looks robotic and dimmed,
like a video game character losing one of its lives.
“This your son?” the cop grunts. Malcolm peers upward, likely
searching for me. (I am a known busybody in the family, but this time
I'm trying to spy and remain unseen.)
My brother's arms are stiff at his side, his eyes glossy with tears.
He sniffles.
My dad is saying yes and okay and the cop is gesturing with his
free hand and saying something I can't quite make out, and the cop is
still clenching Malcolm's collar. His grip looks uncomfortable, even
painful, and I get mother-hen protective. I think about shouting down
to the entryway asking if my brother's under arrest, but I stay quiet
and let my dad say whatever he says to get the cop to finally release my
brother into the house with a little shove.
“Thank you, Officer,” my dad says, closing the door. He locks it,
which is rare. (Why do we always thank people for no reason?)
The patrol car peels away and I dart down the stairs in my socks,
gasping.
“What happened?! Malcolm, are you okay? What's going on?”
“He's okay,” my dad says. “It was a misunderstanding. Let's give
him a minute.”
Malcolm is completely shaken, stunned even, and my dad's leading
him calmly to the dining table. I pour a glass of water in the kitchen
and place it in front of my brother. I sit. I'm quiet, but anxious. I
consider taking a Xanax but snap my attention back to Malcolm. He
gulps the water and presses his palm to his chest, still trying to stop
crying.
After a few minutes, I try my calmest concerned voice. “Did you
get hurt?”
“No.”
Malcolm takes a deep breath.
My dad turns to me, jaw clenched, whole body clenched.
“The officer said he saw him ‘looking suspicious.' ” He sucks his
teeth. Now I can see that behind his composure, he's pissed. “Bullshit.
They saw a young brother outside of the hood and assumed he didn't
belong.”
I hold my mouth agape. “Where was this?”
I scoot my chair closer to my brother's. I can't believe he's been
through a whole drama, just like that, just tonight while I was
watching The Hills or whatever, Malcolm was experiencing the real
horrible world. I'm his big sister. I'm supposed to be the sad one. I'm
supposed to feel all the awful things so he doesn't need to.
“I was walking home from Tony's.” Marissa's brother. They live a
few blocks away, a five-minute walk.
“I thought you were supposed to spend the night there. You and
what's-his-name. The silly dude with the little pin head.” One of my
dad's charms is how he never remembers anyone's names, even kids
we've gone to school with since kindergarten. Instead, he qualifies
everyone with some distinctive quality or feature; most frequently
someone is referred to as “that dude with the big ol' head” or “that guy
with the little pinhead,” respectively.
“Yeah, but they were bugging me!”
“Like how?”
“First, Tony said the n-word. He said he was just kidding, cause it
was in the song we were listening to, and I asked him not to say it. I
asked him nicely. I said ‘Hey, that's racist if you say it.' But he kept
saying it. Like over and over. And he kept saying it was okay because it
was in the song. But then later he told this joke, he said it was this
messed up joke his grandpa said, and he used the n-word again. It
wasn't funny at all. After that I just had to get out of there.”
I know lots of people like Tony, who can't stand that they're not
allowed to say the n-word, so they keep trying to find loopholes, any
excuse to trespass. They repeat racist things they hear and ask, “Isn't
that bad?” when really, they're excited for the chance to say it. And us,
the black kids, we're supposed to be like, Yeah, that's crazy (as if we're
surprised), or Oh yeah, I know you don't mean it that way. We're not
supposed to say how it makes us feel.
—
Once, when I was maybe five or six, I was at Albertson's with my mom.
I sauntered through the aisles trying to be helpful, grabbing cans of
green beans or sleeves of crackers and holding them up to her face
asking, “Do we need this?” “Should we get this?” “Did I pick right?”
We creeped down the cereal aisle, where a young white mother in a
Ralph Lauren polo was taking in the way-too-many options. Her
toddler snacked on grapes in the cart's child seat. And as we got closer,
I realized he was staring at me. Wide-eyed. It wasn't a glance, it was a
leer. As our cart passed theirs it was like slow motion—the baby
pointing his chubby white finger at me and screaming some gurgled
syllables in terror; the young mother giving me the stink eye and
hurrying their shopping cart away. My mom pulled me in close to hip,
kept pushing down the aisle. Under her breath she said “bitch.”
“Mom, what did I do?” I asked with my outside voice when we
rounded the corner to the meat aisle, rows of red beef nestled in
shrink-wrap-and-Styrofoam sleeping bags. “Why did they look at me
like that?”
She shushed me, bent down to look me in the eyes. “I think maybe
they were prejudiced. You didn't do anything at all. Some people are
just prejudiced.”
“Oh.”
The code word—prejudiced, not racist, or bigots—conjured images
of rich, unsmiling white people, and my developing understanding of
civil rights, of injustice and fairness. They were large, serious ideas
that didn't make any sense to me.
“But why did the baby yell at me?”
“Maybe he's never seen a black person before.”
That was the first time I felt like an animal.
—
Across from Malcolm in the dining room, Sunday night's usual quiet
completely disturbed, I am fucking seething. “What was the joke?”
Probing Malcolm to relive a traumatic incident is not the right
move, but I'm relentlessly nosy, and for some reason, I'm morbidly
interested in outright racist statements. Maybe because it feels
strangely like validation, proof of what I suspect many people are
thinking, but don't say in front of me. Hearing people, even people in
movies, say blatantly racist things always meets me with a kind of awe.
I can't wrap my head around how much hate it would take, how many
pent-up vile feelings, to be racist.
“I don't want to say.”
“Okay.”
“Son, why didn't you call me to pick you up?”
“I thought the walk would help me clear my head. It's a nice night
out.”
I love sensitive Malcolm. It's rare, but it reminds me of when he
was a baby, when he needed me, when he was gentle and goofy.
“But what happened? Why did the cop bring you home?”
“I said I lived in the neighborhood and was walking home, but he
didn't believe me.”
My dad and I shake our heads in a huff. But we both know
instinctively there's nothing to say or do, except listen to Malcolm and
try to comfort him. (Try to comfort ourselves?)
“I'm sorry, Dad. I was scared. I didn't know what to do.”
Don't follow rules you don't understand.
I reach for Malcolm's hand and hold it in mine. Dad stands up and
walks to the bar, uncorks a bottle of Kentucky bourbon.
“You did everything right, son.”
MAKE A LIST OF ALL YOUR SINS
In third grade, I lied. I faked a stomachache, a horribly executed ruse
to get out of my suffocating classroom, the stress of my classmates
fumbling through multiplication tables cutting through the air like a
scent. I wanted to be rescued into the sunlit day, cared for, shown
mercy.
Later, some snitch reported me strutting to the lunch tables from
the vending machine with a lollipop in my mouth, and in one abrupt
and belly-sinking moment I was called to the teacher's lounge. I was
still berating myself when I walked in to the sound of someone's Cup
Noodles microwaving. Miss Gloria snatched the sucker right out of my
mouth.
“I thought you had a stomachache,” she accused. I licked my blue
lips. The other teachers looked on, noiselessly swallowing their
sandwiches. I kept thinking, Why? Why did this lady make me feel so
small?
I knew then that I was not good. The thing was, I had felt sick. I
always do.
I guess this isn't a sin, but I don't know what it was—I felt like I was
possessed. I was ten, and it was right after we moved into our gated
community, near Marissa and all the other portrait-ready white
families. It was almost a dare to fit in, to look as wholesome and
generic as the other families on the block, rendering our African
Americanness merely incidental. It was hard work.
At Christmas, my mom was anxious about decorations. Which
tinsel should wrap around the banister, which doorways should be
adorned with synthetic wreaths. Dad spent hours out front on a ladder
fussing with the lights, took a two-hour trip to Home Depot, and came
home to start all over. I sat in the living room with Mom as she went
through boxes of our old decorations, frustrated with how they weren't
living up to our bigger and glossier home. I was in a good mood that
day, I remember, humming along to A Charlie Brown Christmas and
making myself useful by untangling a string of little white lights.
I have no idea what inspired me—years of overthinking the moral
consequences of every small deed, suddenly gone—to wield an
ornament hook and set out defacing a brand-new dining chair. In our
first-ever dining room. Pristine wood, still wafting new-furniture
smell. And there I was, tattooing it discretely. A sleeve of tattoos: a tiny
crescent moon, my initials, a shooting star, a daisy, a heart. When my
mother saw what I did, I realized it too. We both screamed, and I
began to wail with regret, looking down at my hands in horror.
“You didn't know what you were doing,” my mom said when she
found me sobbing in a roly-poly ball on my bed, slapping myself on the
cheek. She rubbed my back with closed eyes and whispered shhhh, the
way she used to when I had insomnia as a kid. “You're not in trouble.
You didn't know what you were doing.”
The messed-up thing is, I really didn't. Being bad, doing wrong, it's
just my impulse. That's how the depression feels, too. I'm not in
control of myself.
—
It takes me forever to fall asleep, even after I finally hear Malcolm
snoring safely in his room. I lie awake with my duvet pulled up to my
chin and my eyes darting around in the dark.
Insomnia, like depression, is a unique blend of loneliness and fear.
After years of being awake when everyone else is asleep, the loneliness
is as at-home to me as the birthmark on my thigh, the way I hear my
voice.
—
At school the next morning, I see the taco-truck-looking Bloodmobile
and roll my eyes. Every year the school sends home a flyer about the
American Red Cross blood drive, and every year I manage to forget,
mustering last-minute courage to watch part of myself drain into a bag
between classes. Today, feeling resolute and wanting an excuse to be
late to class, I decide to get the whole gory scene out of the way. As
always, I try not to look as the nurse pierces my skin, but of course I
look. For a moment, as she presses the needle into my forearm, I feel a
shower of calm and consider getting a tattoo, a small one that my mom
couldn't find. Then I remember summer, how I wanted so badly to
escape, but even then, couldn't commit to coaxing my own blood out
of my body. I guess that's the reason I'm still here, I think. Cowardice.
But maybe there are other reasons I don't know about.
“IS AMERICA REALLY READY FOR AN AFRICAN
AMERICAN PRESIDENT?”
The question screams at me from the whiteboard when I rush in,
sweaty, to AP Government. I toss the Notebook onto Meg's desk and
slide into the last empty chair, right up front, of course. Mr. K gives me
a look; I give him a thumbs-up.
Since it's an election year, Mr. K explains, we'll have in-class
debates every quarter, so we can discover our own political opinions
and prepare to be voters. What I hear is So we can confirm the beliefs
and opinions we've always been taught and prepare to vote
Republican or else. Today the topic of conversation is Barack Obama,
the youthful, handsome black guy who has recently secured the
presidential nomination for the Democratic Party (or as Mr. K refers
to the party, “Morgan's people”). I am not in the mood or condition to
perform as the “African American perspective.” I can't be the entire
black student body; I'm not even sure what my individual stance is.
I'm light-headed and I just want class to end so I can get a burrito for
lunch.
I hate the way all our teachers say African American instead of
black. I want to tell them that it's fine to say black, that it's not like the
n-word, but clearly, they have their own ideas about how to label and
categorize us. Sometimes, in our white oasis, it's hard to tell what year
it is, exactly how far America has come or not come.
The class is split into two groups, tasked with arguing FOR or
AGAINST. Conveniently, I “end up” on the FOR half of the room.
Mr. K knows that if I had to argue AGAINST, I'd probably launch into
my own mini Democratic National Convention. This is a dude with a
collection of Ronald Reagan beanie babies. He basically relies on me to
teach half of the class, unable to bring himself to objectively explain
liberal viewpoints. I mean, we're only a few weeks into school, and
already I have a routine of holding informal office hours after class,
filling in my classmates with what little information I can Google on
Ruth Bader Ginsburg or the right to choose. It's pretty much a
complete mockery of a “Government” class, and we are all hopelessly
doomed to fail the AP test.
The two groups scatter to different parts of the room to compile
talking points. Most of the know-it-alls and bigmouths (myself
excluded) are part of the AGAINST team. I bristle thinking about what
they might blabber under the guise of “devil's advocate.” I picture
Tony spitting the n-word into Malcolm's face with a nauseating grin.
Our group is me, Meg, Kelly, a kid in an oversized Korn T-shirt
who never speaks, and two bland “hot girls” from the soccer team. The
other side is Tim (to whom I have not actually spoken since we hooked
up last year in the orange groves); chapel's American Idols, Jenn and
Adam; a trio of Dungeons and Dragons “well, technically” guys who
play hacky sack between classes; and Stacy Johnson, the other black
girl (who's “mixed”). It's a legendary match of all-star idiots.
Kelly unclips a clean sheet of three-holed paper from her binder
and assigns herself as stenographer.
“Okay, this is easy,” says a soccer girl, scooting her desk closer to
our circle. “I know exactly what to say. We just say everyone was
created in God's image.”
Oh God. I wince and tilt my head, but the others slowly begin to
nod. Don't follow rules you don't understand.
“Okay…,” Meg starts, “like no one should be judged by the color of
their skin? That kind of thing?”
“Let's use the Constitution. ‘All men have been created equal in the
eyes of America,' ” Kelly offers.
“That's the Declaration of Independence,” silent guy says flatly,
“almost.”
“Ooh, I know! Let's say Martin Luther King! Like, duh, am I
right?” Soccer girl #2.
“Well, what do you think, Morgan?” Kelly's lips are the only ones
moving, but I hear the question as a chorus, everyone's head creaking
to my direction.
“I think he's cool,” I say, and close my lips decisively. When the
circle of faces doesn't change, I add, “Not because he's black. I mean,
it's cool that he's black. But I just like him. He's smart.” Also, just
saying “Martin Luther King Jr.” doesn't wash all racism away.
“Rousing argument,” says The Hermit, and my face gets hot. There
is a lot of stuf that no one knows.
“Okay, whatever, I don't know what to say. But I don't think we
can just be like ‘Martin Luther King.' That's dumb. That's not an
argument either.”
I side-eye the soccer girls so hard my eyes are basically closed.
How can I take on the responsibility to represent an entire
population of people that, frankly, I don't know so well myself? Having
a black president seems simultaneously totally reasonable and insane.
Either way, remarkable. When my parents were growing up, black
people were still getting sprayed with firehoses.
“He is very smart,” Meg affirms, filling in the silence. “At least he
uses proper grammar, and that's more than we can say for Bush.”
Kelly nods and jots bullet points. “So, we'll say the color of his skin
doesn't matter because he's smart and qualified.”
The first soccer girl is obnoxiously chipper, eager to apply her
optimistic, “godly” attitude to the cause. Mostly, it's distracting.
“And you know what!” she offers, completely unprompted and
uselessly, “The question is like ‘Is America ready,' so if we have an
African American person as president, that's like, America is totally
over racism.”
“Oh, come on, racism is not ‘over,' ” I snap.
“Is it? In a way?” Meg turns to me; I squint back. “I just mean,
we're friends and I love you the same as anyone else.”
“Two minutes!” Mr. K shouts. “Finalize your arguments!” The
room buzzes urgently.
Saved by the asshole. “Never mind,” I huff.
The Hermit says, “Let's just say that change is good, okay?”
“Right,” says Kelly, writing furiously. “Progress!”
The second soccer girl, who's been texting most of the time, says,
“I think we have a solid argument.”
“I mean, I don't really think we have a stance…,” I mutter, “but
whatever.”
“Time's up!” Mr. K chips. I can hear the grin in his voice.
Um, am I crazy (rhetorical question), or did no one say anything?
No one's being convincing or passionate, not even me. And I had one
job. In the history of my high school career there has never been a
more me-shaped situation (usually they look at me like some extra
puzzle piece), but it's like I just forgot my lines.
We scoot our desks to face the other team—actually the worst
sound ever, since chalkboards are obsolete—and Meg turns her
notebook to me. It says, “U ok?”
I wave it away.
—
The “Well, actually” and “To play devil's advocate” guys are so firm in
their argument and conviction that I wonder if they really do think
white people are better than black people. As if it's simple biology.
First, they start with a bunch of articles and documents, all basically
pointing to the suspicion of black people, and their threat to the
“tradition” that makes America, America. The tradition is white people
are in charge. Their stance is sameness. Their answer to the debate
question is basically “maybe,” because that's the only argument for
their side that doesn't sound outright racist. But instead of going deep
into the inferiority of black people, they hone in on the inferiority of
Barack Obama, which, basically, has the same effect.
Unsurprisingly, Stacy presents their opening statement. It's very
clear she's not the team leader (this bitch is like, allergic to opinions),
but as the only sort-of “African American” member of their team, it's
an understandable strategy. Since she only brings up her race if
pressed (by a white person), everyone knows I'm the better Afro-
American Spokesperson in the class, but today, she will do. She can
play a mild, palpable blackness.
Stacy folds her hands on her desk and leans forward before
launching into the team's stance. She tucks a piece of stiff, hot-combed
hair behind her ear, and twitches her face when it doesn't lay down
whitely. She clears her throat, and I cringe preparing for her squeaky
pitch.
“Perhaps,” she over-annunciates, “America is ready for an African
American president, but, that doesn't mean we need one. Like, African
Americans in America are still making progress. Maybe we shouldn't
rush things.”
If centuries of literal enslavement—plus a hundred more years of
figurative enslavement, and then decades of discrimination—is the
definition of “rushing” progress, well, damn.
Nodding smugly, Stacy then gestures at Tim, who for no freaking
reason at all, stands up from his desk. He folds his hands behind his
back and begins to pace like an ADA on Law & Order. Stacy was
merely the hype-woman—Tim is the real show.
He bellows, “And especially not with someone inexperienced.
Sure, Mr. Obama is charming, but how much do we really know about
him?”
I roll my eyes and remember a movie I saw on Disney Channel
about a teen who leaves her body at will. Alas, there I remain, and Tim
—(I have seen his penis! Clear and weird! I put it in my mouth! He
made that groaning sound!)—asks Adam to introduce “Exhibit A,”
some odd, Comic-Sans-on-black-background blog post comparing
Obama's proposed policies to Marxism. Not that we have ever studied
Marxism. Much like sex, we're instructed only to fear it.
Tim emerges from behind his desk and moseys the tile between
our rows.
“Now, I direct your attention to a particular passage in the Book of
Revelation,” he says. “Which warns that the Antichrist will be of
Middle Eastern descent, and a very persuasive orator. Think about it.”
A soccer girl gasps and whimpers a little. Even people on my team
are getting got, and my blood is boiling.
“Oh my god, I'd never thought of that! And remember that sermon
during chapel about how Hurricane Katrina was a sign of the times?!”
“He was born in Hawaii,” I spit, and Mr. K reflexively shushes me.
And here we are: same shit, exciting new package. I feel like a
novelty. I feel like an animal, some unidentifiable species under glass
in the science lab. I try to remind myself what Meg said: I'm just like
everyone else.
No—I know better.
“That may be, opponent.” Tim looks directly into my eyes, and I
squint back in derision. With where my mouth has been, the least he
can do is call me by name. Asshole.
“But it is undeniable that Obama and Osama are homonyms. And
anyway, why should we trust him? Just because he's black? I mean,
I'm not a racist”—and here he turns his back to us, eliciting murmurs
of support from his team—“but this is affirmative action all over again.
It's the welfare debate. It's O. J. Simpson. I beg of you, esteemed
opponents, is this real progress?”
This is the most I've ever seen Tim speak, and it is horrendous,
vile. I'm disgusted. With myself. With everyone.
Next, my team presents our wack-ass rebuttal, and all I can offer is
a few nods in black confirmation of Kelly's enthusiastic talking points.
Really, I'm studying Tim—the arch of his thin reddish eyebrows, his
self-satisfied upper lip, his nasal voice, every dumb, rude thing coming
out of his mouth. He repulses me. What was so exciting about hooking
up with someone that I don't even like? Was I just testing out how far
I'll go to quench my boredom? I wish I could take it back. Cover it up
with a new feeling.
—
As soon as class is over (report: no one learned a freaking thing), I
rush dizzily to my locker, out-of-sorts, starving and irritable. Why is
everything the worst?
I dodge and weave through the main hallway and its conservative
zombies, pretending shouts and giggles around me are just white
noise. I desperately need food and some air-drumming to Fugazi songs
to find my center again. I need me time.
You can always escape.
I open my texts and scroll through the last few messages between
me and David. I didn't text him back last night, and apparently
sometime as I was driving to school this morning, he texted, hi did you
get raptured.
I grin and type, Long story. Then: When will I see you again? Part
of me immediately regrets the text, but not the part I like.
Meg catches up to me at my locker, cheerier than I've ever seen
her. She was eying me all throughout class, trying to get my attention.
I don't want to talk about it. Definitely not now.
“Wanna go give blood and then get lunch?” She adjusts the straps
on her yellow JanSport.
“I already did it. Even ate the cookie. I think I'm just gonna drive
thru somewhere and read in my car. Today sucks.” I toss my
government textbook haphazardly into my locker. We didn't even
open it in class.
“Are you upset about class? Tim is such a dumbass. And Mr. K is
like, stuck in the eighties. Don't listen to them.”
“Yeah, I know. It's not really that. I'm just tired.”
James clomps up to us and leans his shoulder into Meg's as a
greeting. “What are we talking about?”
I sigh theatrically, “Oh, just how Barack Obama is very likely the
Antichrist, according to many of our peers.”
“Do you wanna go get blood cookies with me? Morgan already
went.”
“Pardon me?”
“It's the blood drive today. Wanna go? By the way, you're up.”
(James accepts the notebook graciously.)
“Oh right. Yeah, I went earlier too. Gross.”
When? I wonder idly. James has English first period, and he never
skips it; his papers are a hot mess, so he lives and dies by participation
points. Whatever.
I turn to Meg. “Sorry, dude. See you in the yearbook room after
school?”
“Okaaaaay.” She frowns. The three of us scatter in different
directions, like atoms splitting and becoming new, lonely units.
Darkness isn't a bad thing.
You can escape.
—
I drive through Del Taco and sit in the parking lot listlessly, kicking my
feet up over my steering wheel. I find Bright Eyes on my iPod.
Everyone else is into “First Day of My Life,” but my favorite album is
still Fevers and Mirrors. I don't think their music is about love. It
sounds more like mania, but a wild, celebratory madness. The way
Conor Oberst slurs and screams and doesn't hold back. Even though
we aren't screaming about the same things, I feel like he understands.
I take two bites of my disappointing Del Beef and feel gross, so I
wrap it back in its waxy paper. I am a miserable combination of the
following: annoyed, woozy, sad. I don't want to go back to school. I
don't feel like talking or smiling. I need an outlet.
I sort of think I've felt this way for longer than I can remember.
David texts back: how about Friday night, my dear?
Butterflies. It's so dumb, I know, but it's the kind of dumb I need
to hold onto right now. A distraction. A harmless surface delusion.
Some Seventeen magazine fluff that has nothing to do with politics, or
curses, or rules, or chemical imbalances.
It's a date, I reply, and it's enough to get me to turn my engine,
blast No Doubt's seminal Tragic Kingdom, and return, armored, to
the united states of my stupid fucking school. I have time to go to
Jamba Juice before English.
PART WHERE I AM TOTALLY CASUAL, I SWEAR
Whatever, sometimes you just need to cry for no reason. Not because
you have depressive disorder not otherwise specified, or because
you're lonely even with your friends, or because of the Bible or David
Santos, or because you gave a blow job to Tim McCloud. You cry
instead of thinking about the reason. A Tilly and the Wall song fills you
with feels. Whatever. They sing, It all went to my heart. It feels good.
I let the tears come. Then, neatly and calmly, I flush the evidence
in the farthest stall of the girl's bathroom.
When I step out of the stall, Marissa and Jenn Hanson are at the
other side of the sink, outfitted for soccer practice and acrobatically
pulling their hair into messy buns. I smile at them in the mirror while
I'm washing my hands, but I don't know if they see me.
I have the yearbook room all to myself tonight. The newbies are out
getting quotes about the upcoming homecoming game. (A bullshit
assignment. They'll come back with stuff like “ ‘Go Eagles!' said front
office assistant Ms. Fischer,” or “ ‘I'm excited,' said freshman Jill
Matthews.' ” I'll have to rewrite the entire article myself right before
deadline, but it's worth it for the peace and quiet now.)
I'm brainstorming story ideas for my editorial features.
(Ostensibly I am. I know all the best ideas will come to me at the last
minute, so I'm mostly just hanging out. It's my process.)
The empty yearbook room is a rare and heavenly gift. I put on
some music and start the electric kettle, which will take approximately
four whole songs to heat water for tea, and I settle in at my desk to
catch up on the latest episodes of The Notebook. No one really has
assigned computers, but I'm the editor, and mine is mine because it's
tagged with the sticker from a pink lady apple and an orange Post-it
that says TL, DR. Above the screen, there's a sign handwritten on
computer paper: Please do not hover. It makes Morgan very
uncomfortable. Ha! I don't know what I would do without this place, a
little sanctuary in the middle of a battlefield.
The Yellow Notebook has traveled from Meg to James to Kelly and
is now back to me.
Ok so you guys know that cute sophomore with all the hemp bracelets and
the hair who also works at Coco's? He's in my Spanish 3 class AND TODAY HE
SAT NEXT TO ME. James knows him from Computer class and says he is
single…And, um, he asked me if I want to come over sometime and play Halo
with him. I said you're on. And you know what? I know how to play Halo.
Dang, we are HOTT. We are so good at boys!
Doesn't it suck when the person you <3 doesn't appreciate you AT ALL!!!
Anyway, that's why I'm sad face…
So exciting, Morgan! I'm so happy for you, Meg! James, I
totally get how you feel! Ugh! What are you guys wearing to
the homecoming dance? I'm going with girls from cheer, and
they're making us all wear matching shirts. Ew!
You guys are all doing awesome!!!! Meg, teach me how to be good
at boys!!! Every time I talk to David I feel like I'm gonna say
something stupid and he'll snap out of it like, whoa this girl is a
freak, and go back to his adorable funny weird-in-a-charming-way
life where he could date any Abercrombie model he wanted. Him
being my boyfriend would be like Seth Cohen from The O.C. going
out with a sad Muppet. So, James, I feel you. Maybe that
person just isn't the one. Maybe the one could be waiting for you
at Coco's. I'm hungry.
Meg slinks in right as I'm really going for a pitch I cannot reach,
singing “Maps” by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. She smirks and takes a seat
next to my computer. “Hey girl.”
I try to laugh myself away. “Hey. I can't sing. What's up?”
She lets out one of those what-a-day sighs. “Oh, just wasting time.
Today is weird.”
“Yeah,” I agree. I skip to the next song, trying to shift the vibe.
“You don't have copyediting to do, right?”
“No, none of the children have turned in their stories yet.”
“Good, me neither. I was thinking of reading for English, but I
don't feel like doing anything.”
“So are you okay, dude?” she asks, and the kettle finally steams.
“For sure. Yeah, I'm fine.” I pour a cup of Constant Comment,
which is an orange-flavored black tea with the name of an indie pop
band. I keep a stash of the stuff in my purse, in my car, and in the
yearbook room. “Did you get your blood cookie?”
“Oh, um, I didn't, actually. I mean, I didn't give blood. They said I
couldn't.”
“Huh? Is that a thing? I didn't know those vampires turned anyone
away. What happened?”
“I guess they said I didn't weigh enough?”
Caught off guard, I subtly scan her body. She's just as skinny as
she's always been, thin wrists and ankles, T-shirt billowing out at her
hip bones. I think back—yes, she always eats lunch, and never
significantly less than the rest of us. She doesn't talk about her body
like all the vapid girls do. Then again, she's tight-lipped about her
insecurities, if she even has any. Only her face looks a little different.
Grayer, maybe, and the valleys beneath her eyes sunken, like she
hasn't slept in days. Still, most of us look like that right about now—
the PSATs are only a few weeks away.
“Are you okay?” (Sometimes it's like that's all we can say to each
other, without saying too much.)
“Yeah! You know I'm a fatty. Anyway, they told me I wasn't the
first one to get sent away. They have a bunch of random restrictions.”
“Weird.” I sip, folding my legs beneath me in the swivel chair. “Oh,
hey, what's the deal with homecoming? When is it, again?”
“Friday. Should we go?”
“Oh, dangit,” I gasp. “David just asked me to hang out on Friday!
Oh my god, what do I do?”
“See if he wants to come?”
“No way, are you serious?”
“Why not?” Meg shrugs. “Just ask him casually.”
“Meg, I am not asking him to be my date to a dance, that is not
how my song goes.”
“Well, we're obviously going as each other's dates, so he can be our
third wheel. Or fourth, with James.”
“Okay I like that better. But wait, how do I say something
casually?”
“All you have to do is be like, I'm sexy and I know it, bitches! Let
me see what you have so far.”
Hello, David. I'm so sorry!
“Oh, girl.” Meg confiscates my phone and helps me craft a normal
message.
oops, I totes forgot about our homecoming dance, and lol we
should probably reschedule.
“God, why am I having so much anxiety right now?” I hit Send
with one hand and absently prod at a forthcoming pimple on my chin
with the other. Closing my eyes, I exhale slowly. “Okay.”
“Good job!” She pats my back. “And, like, if he's not into it, he's an
idiot. You're a catch.”
“You know what? I am!” I mostly believe this, minus my pesky
diagnosis, the black mark on my record. “So are you, dude. Plus, you
know how to play Halo! Total package!”
Meg giggles and dances in her seat. “I'm terrible, but who cares!”
I throw back my head laughing.
“You know, I get that,” she offers, neatly lining up a row of paper
clips and avoiding eye contact. “Anxiety.”
“Yeah?” I push my sweaty palms together, awkwardly clear my
throat.
“One time it got so bad I had to go the emergency room. I thought
I was having a heart attack.”
“Whoa, really? That's scary.” It doesn't feel like the right thing to
say. I know what panic attacks are. They suck.
“Yeah. They gave me Klonopin. My stepmom wants me to see a
shrink. But I did that when my parents got divorced, and I'm not going
back there.”
“Actually…I, uh, see a therapist.” (I regret my confession instantly,
but maybe I don't even remember why I was supposed to be ashamed.)
“Oh, I didn't know,” she says quietly. “For the anxiety?”
“For anxiety and depression, yeah.” She widens her eyes. I exhale,
and I think it counts for seven exhales. “I haven't really told anyone. It
sounds so dramatic, it's embarrassing. Therapy does help, though.”
“Well, I'm here if you ever want to talk about it. I wouldn't judge or
tell anyone. You know I'm good at keeping secrets.” In the moment, I
realize I do know this about Meg, though I'm not sure how I know it.
I hate the squeamish feeling I have: all of my terrible worst
business, right there for another person to dig around in.
“Thanks,” I creak shyly.
“How is it? Therapy.”
“It's not bad. I feel better than I did before.”
Finally, my phone buzzes. Meg snatches it up while I burrow my
face into my hands.
yesssss so perfect. i can escort you and bring flowers and the whole thing. that would be
hilarious! so down.
(Hilarious because David actually being my date to a school dance,
taking me by the hand and twirling me by the waist, would be a
complete joke. Of course.)
“Fine,” I say, nailing the whole casual thing. “If we're going to the
dance I think I need new shoes.”
Meg squeals, does jazz hands. At least we're in all of this together.
The Diaries of Morgan Parker
September 30, 2008
Dream that doesn't feel like a dream: I'm walking through the
mall at school, and I spot James under the stairwell near the
girls' bathroom. I'm desperate and fed up; I grab him by the
collar of his polo shirt; I'm begging. I say, “James, I feel like
killing myself.” His gaze at my forehead, for a moment, is pity.
But then he says, “I know.” He chuckles, “You say it to everyone.
All the time.” I step back dramatically in horror. No one believes
me.
SOMETHING LIKE A PHENOMENON
We insist we're only going to the dance because we've already seen all
the movies playing, and the mini-golf place in Ontario closes early on
Fridays. I'm still kind of excited about our plans: it will just be Meg,
James, David, and me. Meg and I are gonna wear jeans under our
dresses, and David's wearing a tie over his T-shirt. James, of course,
will don a full tux.
I'm in charge of packing the water bottles full of booze, and David
will drive us all from my house. He doesn't drink much, he told me; he
charmingly claims everything bores him. Meg and I eventually gave up
shopping for shoes—we drove from store to store in Orange Plaza with
“Phenomena” by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs on repeat, agonizing over boys
and blowing everything out of proportion—so we're just wearing our
Chucks. (Meg's are classic black and white with impressive scuffs and
a red star Sharpied on each toe; mine bright green, with the Modest
Mouse lyric “I don't feel at all like I fall” written on the outer left sole.
Pretty much every song on This Is a Long Drive for Someone with
Nothing to Think About gives me feels.)
I flip my hair with the big curling iron and shred my jeans at the
knees. I watch a YouTube video on the perfect smoky eye. My dress is
strapless and turquoise with a full skirt. Looking in the mirror at the
finished product, I avoid my face (yep, still the same, despite all
efforts), but quietly decide that my boobs look fan-tastic.
Tonight, we do everything our way: paper flower corsages,
disposable camera pictures with our tongues hanging out. David parks
when we get to the school, and we all stare in the direction of the
gymnasium. Some of the Popular Christians are shrieking and
exchanging lip gloss. Jenn Hanson's geeky boyfriend, Isaiah
Engelman, dutifully hangs at her side with a brain-dead smile. The
Fake Burnouts, Hermit with the Korn T-shirt, all those guys are
kicking soda bottles in the football stands. I spot Marissa and Jordan
holding hands, throwing their heads back in laughter as they approach
the school entrance, decorated with wimpy balloons and posterboard
signs. They look like different people. In this moment, I want to be
them. That's another thing I hate about myself—that sometimes, I
want to be basic like them.
David's car is so stuffy, and I have the boob sweat to prove it. I
glance over at him, the constellation of freckles on his cheekbones.
Why can't that be us? What's stopping me from taking his hand in
mine, closing the deal with that half smirk I've seen in every single
teen movie?
“Hoo boy.” David exhales, wiping the sweaty back of his neck.
James snorts a laugh.
“You guys,” Meg says.
“I know,” I groan.
“Fuck it,” James says.
“Okay then,” David concludes, and peels out of the lot.
Someone giggles and it grows, collecting momentum into a growl
of laughter. We head directly to our spot.
—
Our spot is a construction site on a hill above the orange groves
overlooking downtown. Meg and me stumbled on it one day driving
from a lunch picnic in Prospect Park, drunk on stolen oranges and
spicy September wind and in no rush to go back to school. From a
ledge at the center of the cul-de-sac-to-be, we can see I-10, all of
Redlands, and parts of Yucaipa. The view is nothing, really, but to us it
feels significant. It gives us perspective, gazing down at all the bullshit,
untouchable. All of us weird and confused and trying to figure
ourselves out, smoking and looking and cradling warm beer from the
stash in David's trunk.
As we watch traffic light up the night air, we pass Black & Milds
and water-bottle-vodka shots around. We talk about nothing and
everything; we scream at the traffic below, the fog above. After a while,
we get quiet, take turns letting out super-reflective sighs. I know this
moment is small, that they all are, but I allow it to feel profound. What
book is it—The Perks of Being a Wallflower?—where they say they feel
“infinite”? I don't care if it's cliché in the history of teen-angst
narratives, this night feels close to that. Finally, I think. Finally, for
even just this moment, I get it, how to be light and full of love and
confidence. My life looks like it's supposed to.
“Thank God,” James says, shaking his head like a church lady.
I swallow my gulp and swing an arm around his neck, pulling him
close to me. “Forget God.”
This is the part of the night where every twenty minutes someone
says, “So what are we doing?” knowing full well that our plan, our fate,
is only this: hanging out. (Hanging out requires no additional guise of
activity. We lose hours and hours “hanging out,” trying to decide what
to “do” next, and we never regret a second of it.)
Meg plays Lady Gaga on her phone and dances goofily. James is
waving his arms around and shouting the climax of a long story I can
barely follow, about how he and Isaiah and the other computer guys
predicted the housing market crash. This on the heels of some outthere conspiracy theories about Mitt Romney. James has something to
say about everything except himself.
David trades his empty Budweiser can for a fresh one and presses
his shoulder into mine.
“Hey,” he says into my ear, “let's go see what the view's like over
there.”
“Cool.”
I grab my flannel and the bottle of vodka and apple juice I have
marked as my own. I'm starting to feel it: freedom. It's loose and
freshening, my bones and muscles relaxing under my skin, behaving
themselves for once. Drinking out here in public with interesting
adventurous friends and a cute boy who, for some glorious reason,
wants to hang out with me—it's all so exciting. I want this to be every
day, for everyone to see how chill and fun I can be, even for a
depressed nerd. For a black girl. Maybe my hex was lifted with
summer.
David grabs my hand as we slip away from the group and head up
a small gravelly hill. The palm-side of his hand is buttery and smooth,
and its grip is surprisingly muscular. It's been so long since I've held a
boy's hand, I didn't realize they became guys in the meantime. I'm
feeling proudly conspicuous, at once embarrassed and smug that my
friends can see me grinning like an idiot and leaning flirtatiously into
David. Hot, mysterious, good-natured David. Oh my freaking God, this
night is awesome.
We sit on a boulder and huddle in close to each other. I take a deep
meditative breath and look down at the highway view, which is no
different than it was a few feet away. David lets go of my hand under
the guise of scratching his patchy stubble. We glance at each other,
then away, glance at each other, giggle, glance away. I don't care that
it's excruciatingly awkward, or that we are both clearly blowing it,
whatever “it” is. I love just being next to him, tipsy in the quiet night.
He chuckles a little, then softly hangs his arm around my
shoulders. Is this it? (Tell him how you feel!!! Kelly's rounded
handwriting commanded in the Yellow Notebook the other day, which
made me roll my eyes and scoff, just annoyed at her nagging to be
included and then being super annoying and using too many
exclamation points.) But maybe this is it. Vodka and apple juice:
courage of the gods.
“So, uh, thanks for coming tonight. I know it's sorta dumb. But I'm
glad we get to hang out.”
“For sure.” He takes a drink and I can hear the foamy beer swish
around in his mouth. “Thanks for inviting me. This is fun.” He looks at
me, almost disturbingly directly, and smiles.
“Cool.” And this is what I do: I lean my head into the crevice
between his chin and shoulder and brush my fingers against his hand.
Bold as hell.
He peeks down at me and lifts an eyebrow with a smirk and I
swear to god it is the cutest fucking thing I have ever had the privilege
of seeing. It is happening. To me. Bold as hell.
I crane my face closer to his, bottom lip heavy, breath heavy.
Please.
“Whoa.” His palms are suddenly on my shoulders, pushing me
away. The air between us thickens.
“Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry. I just…ugh, jeez, ignore me.”
“No, I'm sorry, Morgan, I didn't think…I mean I sorta thought…”
And—he laughs.
He fucking laughs.
“I dunno I kinda thought you were…maybe…gay.” Still laughing.
“Shoot, maybe I'm drunk. I'm sorry. This is so awkward.”
“What,” I try to say, but it comes out a deflated puff of air. Pay
attention, M, be present, save yourself.
I force a laugh.
“That's so funny! Oh-em-gee!” (Portrait of me doing what I think a
hot, feminine girl does, minus the tucking back of shiny thin hair.)
“I'm sorry for like, being weird. I'm…totally not, though. Why did you
think that?”
“I mean—”
“I wasn't really asking,” I shoot back.
“Okay. I'm sorry. It's just, I don't really think of you like that.
We're friends, right?”
“Yeah!”
It's unconvincing and I know it. I showed him my cards and they
are not the right cards. I'm not in a Katherine Heigl movie. I'm still
just me, unlucky, marked for disappointment.
“No, really, Morgan, look at me.”
I obey, wincing. Everything about me is embarrassing.
“I just don't want things to be weird, okay? Because I think you're
really awesome. Like, seriously awesome. So, are we cool?”
And I look that motherfucker in the eye and say “Totally,” knowing
full well I'm lying.
“So, I guess this is a bad time to ask about how the ol' curse is
treating you?”
“Ha.” (Oh that? See one second ago.) “Actually, I'm kind of getting
used to it. Y'know, just riding it out.”
We laugh mechanically, careful not to look each other in the eyes. I
am back onstage. I've successfully tucked my shame away, deep under
soil, and now I shall water it with booze.
Eager to change the subject, I announce randomly, “Everything
looks so unimportant up here.”
“Atención!” James wails behind us in clumsy español. “You two
cutie pies get your butts over here!”
Meg's changed the music to Animal Collective, and as I recognize
the opening chords of “Peacebone,” I feel a rush. It's like a birdcall.
(This is one of our songs. We love to lose ourselves to our little
anthems, jumping and banging our heads and shouting from the
depths of our bellies. I'm not conscious of how I look or anything
happening around me. On Tilly and the Wall's “Nights of the Living
Dead,” for example, James belts “I feel so alive!” Meg shouts the
“shake our asses” part, and I jump up and down like a one-woman
mosh pit. I don't know what I would do without those moments of
temporary escape. When I return, the world is always the dumb same.)
David and I are totally unresolved, but we need to get the hell out
of this moment, so we scurry over to them.
“Gather 'round, my dear ones. I have a gift,” James says, and we all
huddle in a circle, as if prepped for a séance. He opens his suit jacket
and from an inside pocket produces a fat joint.
“Weed, really?” says Meg. “I don't think I want any. Do you guys?”
James lifts his palm to shush us. “Listen, everyone is in on this. It's
important, okay? We are owning the night! We are marking our
friendship and living freely!”
Then, this dude literally howls at the blanket of sky above us. He's
pretty drunk, and I am all for it. I want his energy, the sparkling night
he's beckoning.
“Hell yeah.” I nod.
So what if David totally rejected me? So what if the feeling of said
rejection is now settled firmly into my shoulders, my fingers, my spine,
eerily familiar? I can handle it. I've handled much more.
“Then, Morgan, you shall take the first hit.” James lights the joint
and passes it to me ceremoniously.
As the joint travels around our circle and back again, I get weird
thoughts and use all my brainpower swatting them away.
David's looking at me with disgust; No, I'm imagining it; Has he
always been so dumb and regular?; Ugh, who can I make out with?;
Meg is thinner than usual, I'm just now noticing; Does James have a
crush?; Is my medicine working?; Does everyone hate me?; Am I
having fun?
After a while, James is very stoned, David's pretty stoned, I'm
settling into a nice combination of full-on drunkenness and marijuana
disorientation, and Meg is holding it together with—perhaps I imagine
it—mischief behind her eyes. I realize we've been standing here for a
while looking at smog and traffic, no one talking, just listening to Ben
Gibbard tug at our ache and angst.
Meg's phone dings. “It's Kelly,” she dictates: “ ‘Sarah from cheer
just told me that a bunch of people are going to a party on the golf
course. Come!' ” She pronounces “exclamation point.”
“Uh, I'm down!” James tips open his mouth and pours in some
vodka, sloshes it around in his cheeks.
“I don't know…,” Meg trails. “I am completely sober, and everyone
is terrible.”
“I guess I'm down for whatever.” I'm mostly lying about this. I
actually really want to go. Just to see what it's like and say I was there,
for people to see me there. But if I go to the party, I will still be me at
the party.
“Could be fun,” David chimes in, trying to sound relaxed and like
whatever about the whole thing. He looks different to me now. Like no
one special.
“I don't really think I should drive though.” This renders him
useless. I wish he would just go home.
“We don't have to stay that long,” James says. “And if you're the
DD, Meg, you get to say when we leave.”
Meg's acting like she's a hard sell, but it's all for show. “Ugh,” she
finally acquiesces, “Whatever.”
I make a goofy face at her—an offering of gratitude and solidarity—
and she laughs back.
James claps his hands together. He looks fantastic in a tux; I
briefly wish he wore them every day. “Shall we?” he says, and cocks his
hip sloppily, grinding the joint roach into the hard dirt.
OBVIOUSLY I AM STILL ME AT THE PARTY
The pulse of a single night can change fast, like unpredictable weather.
When we get to the golf course people are already pretty wasted,
and the only one of us at their level is James, who's already getting lost
in the middle of his own whirling stories. The lawn is littered with girls
in Hollister tank tops and boys slapping each other's butts to impress
them. T-Pain blasts from someone's car. There are a couple kegs and
clusters of plastic bottles every few feet. One of Jordan Jacobsen's
little cronies is completely faded and driving a golf cart around in
circles. It's basically a carnival of dumb people making bad decisions.
It actually looks pretty lame.
David recognizes someone from his school and says he'll be right
back, to which I reply, distractedly, “Whatever.” He and I are distant
but civil.
James leans into me and whispers, “What happened with D?!”
“Don't ask.” I roll my eyes with a pout. He kisses my cheek and
goes in search of more substances.
I look at James with painful clarity, despite my blurry boozy
vision. His tux looks silly here, in the parking lot of a bougie golf
course where his parents have never stepped foot.
(Even I have a little butterfly in my chest stepping onto the freshly
manicured green, worried I'm too provincial for the setting—we were
only invited secondhand. My parents are squarely middle class, but
they're draped in their poor Southern upbringing. They have no
privileges to speak of—everything we do and see is for the first time.
Plus, we're black, so by default, we just can't exist in this universe.
These kids, these golf club kids, are casual about designer jeans and
tricked-out new trucks. Their parents aren't forging any new territory.
This is just what they were born with, what they deserve.)
What I decide to do next is get drunk. You're not supposed to
drink on antidepressants, part of me knows. But the reckless part of
me—the hurt part—says to drink until all the weird cheap booze swirls
around in my belly with my antidepressants and lets me pretend to be
a different girl.
“I'm going to try to get extremely drunk,” I announce to Meg,
hands on her shoulders.
“Excellent. Don't get sloppy. I'll see you later—I'm gonna try to
find Kelly. Do you have your phone?” This last part she says like a
stern parent who knows my phone is always dying or dead. She
expects to be disappointed.
“I think it's still on?”
“I'll just come find you,” she relents, and I blow her a kiss.
At a makeshift bar area, I run into Jake, one of the football guys
who's uncharacteristically nice to me because he thinks my brother's
funny. He catches me making a face at the few warm Bud Lights
bobbing like apples in a plastic cooler.
“Malcolm's sister!” he shouts from behind me, loosening himself
from a cluster of jocks playing a drinking game. (They are all
humongous people. After an away game, this one guy, Mike
Something, ate a 16x16 at In-N-Out, and then he even finished a
cheerleader's fries, Kelly told me.)
“Morgan”—I wave—“but yeah.”
“I know.” He smiles. “Gimme your cup.”
Jake Walker is objectively hot, like teen movie hot. I feel like
someone else just being so close to him. He smells like soap and new
clothes.
“What is it?”
He pours me a double shot from a plastic bottle. “Tequila. You
ready?”
“Cheers, I guess.” My face cinches and twists at the sharp taste—if
I drink the whole thing in one gulp, I will projectile vomit. I force it
down in three swallows.
“Nice,” Jake laughs easily, pouring the last of the bottle into his
cup. He tosses the empty into the murky warm cooler water.
“Later, Morgan.” He grins.
I shout a “Thanks” as he wanders off, throwing up a peace sign. It's
a strangely pleasant interaction, like in a John Hughes movie, social
castes colliding.
Soon I find myself in a circle of girls from my class, dancing and
giggling to several Ludacris songs. Bless everyone's flailing white
hearts. I finagle another shot from someone's stash, then grab Meg's
hand. We run barefoot across the grass to the artificial lake, screaming
Yeah Yeah Yeahs lyrics at the top of our lungs until, like toddlers, we
tire ourselves out.
After spending what feels like hours giggling and bitching about
our lives, backs stretched out on the damp grass, we slowly make our
way back to the group to collect the boys.
“I'm sorry the David Santos mission was a fail,” Meg offers,
handing me a dandelion she picked.
I crush it in my fist and blow the flurries into the night air. “Ugh,
whatever. I don't know why I thought he'd be interested. I'll get over
him.”
“Maybe now he'll be thinking about it. You, I mean. Obviously, he
realizes you are so hot right now.”
“Maybe. I don't know, he's kind of annoying, now that I think
about it. Whatever.”
“It's okay. Sometimes we fall for pricks. It's not always our fault.”
“I know. Ugh, I wish I didn't have so many feelings. Was your boy
here tonight? I didn't see him.”
“Nah.”
“Dang.”
The party's dying down now. Jenn Hanson and Kelly collect red
cups, scowling at the smell, while Isaiah and Adam trail obediently
behind them with trash bags. Most of the Popular Christians have
gone home or to a slumber party at church or whatever, leaving only a
few clusters of jocks flirting with Hot Girls, and some fake burnouts
brooding and smoking a hookah.
“Oh, look, I see David.” I point, and we go in the direction of his
curls, his lovely, lanky lean. He tips his head back to cackle
gregariously. And now I see who he's talking to, whose arm he's
brushing with his fingertips. Marissa. In a cropped T-shirt and lowslung jeans, lip gloss and bone-straight hair twinkling in the night.
“Oh my god,” Meg gasps as we watch Marissa's head swim
backward with a flirty laugh, stumbling sloppily as she playfully
smacks David's arm.
Here it is: the part in the movie where Gabrielle Union and Paul
Walker tell Laney nobody really liked her all along. The bucket of pig's
blood on Carrie's unsuspecting head. The plot of Mean Girls. Marissa
ditching me in the parking lot of Carl's Jr. for Jordan Jacobsen. The
prom night scene in 10 Things I Hate About You. The letdown.
I think I might throw up.
Suddenly some bottles shatter loudly in the parking lot, and
everyone's attention turns to a slurring voice shouting, “Fuuuck
youuu, dude!”
It's James's slurry voice.
Meg grabs my hand and we rush in his direction, trying to beat the
horde.
James is swaying back and forth, toe to toe with some left-back
football guy (Mike Something?) while Jordan's little army encircles
them, tittering at the exchange.
“Hey! Yo!” Mike baits James, who, to his credit, is trying to
disengage but is too wasted and confused to find his way out of the
altercation. “You Clay Aiken motherfucker!”
At the reference, I cock my head and squint.
Mike Something is also wasted, barely making sense, but he's
aggressive, clenching his abs and doubling over laughing at himself.
Everyone but Meg and me is laughing now. Music from somebody's
Ford Focus is playing System of a Down or something, but it stops
abruptly.
“Run along, idiot,” James manages.
I think briefly of James's grandmother, a Greek immigrant. I think
of the day someone in Drama pointed out a small hole in his shirt
collar and how he shrugged it off. The Converses he sways in now, one
of the soles almost detached. And watching him, so defenseless and
blatant in his difference, I love him. I am him. That's how I know I
can't help him. He doesn't need me to.
“Is it true?” Mike's obnoxiously loud, and I can tell he's jonesing
for a scandal, something legendary that will last until Monday. “I know
it's true, just admit it. You're a fag! Faggot! I knew it!”
“You don't even know…what you're talking about…” James's eyes
flutter closed. He hiccups.
Mike grabs Jordan by the sleeve and leans close to him but doesn't
stop yelling. “Yo! I swear to God, nigga. My mom told me. The
fuckin'…the blood thing…”
Jordan backs away, shrinking from the scene, but he definitely
laughs. It breaks my heart.
Mike turns to his audience, just sickeningly tickled with himself.
“You can't give blood if you bone other dudes. 'Cause like AIDS and
shit. Fuckin' faggots. Fuckin' pervs!”
Mike Something's finale is a lewd thrust of his hips, as if he's
gracelessly humping something. I'm devastated and helpless listening
to the crowd erupt—a few gasps, but mostly laughter. It all happens so
fast, and both of them are completely faded. No one present is in any
condition to process what's going on.
Jordan snickers scandalously, drunk and fascinated. “Fuck, dude!”
He takes a couple of steps toward James, who's just standing there
nakedly, with his arms crossed and a blank stare. Everyone watching
gets quiet.
Jordan looks super serious and lowers his voice, as if James was
just revealed to be one of those “devil worshippers” who do weird
rituals in the park at night, huddled around candles arranged in the
shape of a pentagram.
“For real?” Jordan spits out, slanty Sid-from-Toy-Story eyes all
beady and red.
I'm so drunk I think I might just clobber him, curse the entire
Jordan Jacobsen lineage. Pushing forward, I make sure to elbow him
as I approach James, who mutters something mangled and messy.
David appears at his side and links arms to guide him to the car. We
follow.
“Jesus Christ!” Meg exclaims, fishing David's keys from her tote.
David throws me a look of concern, his arm wrapped around
James's waist. He's still wearing that stupid tie.
“Where were you?” I hiss.
“Nowhere,” he shoots back with an attitude.
—
The ride back to my house is silent, other than me and David
alternating asking James if he's okay and him swatting our concern
away. He looks like he's gonna puke, his eyes closed and leaning his
head against the window. Meg cracks the window to give him some air,
but she's obviously pissed—her lips pursed and stern. She plays the
Unicorns, followed by Tegan and Sara; there is no negotiation. I'm
trying to hold on to my buzz for dear life, especially since the vibe is so
awkward.
I turn to David in the backseat, who keeps looking nervously over
at James and peeking at his phone every few minutes. “Can I smoke in
your car?”
“Yeah, yeah!” he gasps, looking up at me too readily. “Do you.”
As I light my cigarette I roll down the window and turn up the
song, “I Know I Know I Know.” I look over at Meg and poke her arm,
trying to coax a grin and the energy we sparked earlier tonight,
barefoot and childlike in the grass.
“The same as I love you…” I sing between puffs.
“You'll always love me too…” she finishes, and we laugh.
David's rejection, James's sloppiness, Mike Something's horrible
display of hate and Jordan cosigning him—all of it vanishes for a sec.
James groans strangely in the backseat, eliciting coddling from
David and more laughter from Meg. At the stoplight, she slams the
breaks haltingly, teasing James's gag reflex.
“Oh my god, you're such a dick!” I squeal, drunkenly thrilled.
At the next light, she does it again, and smirks, self-satisfied. I
realize how exasperating it must've been to be sober around all of
those drunk people she hates, and us, too.
“Pull over!” James slurs, and David echoes him.
“Oh, come on,” Meg says, speeding up.
“Dude, maybe you should,” I try gently.
Meg sighs, annoyed, but complies at the next place to pull in, the
gated entrance to my neighborhood shooting range. James juts out of
the car and yaks, his left hand on his hip and his right clenching the
gate. Meg whines impatiently. David's outside, leaning with his arms
crossed against the car door, poised to run to James's rescue.
“Yo, what's wrong?” I ask her. (We were just having such a good
time. Did I do something?) “I know James is ridiculous, but he is really
wasted tonight. He's clearly dealing with some other shit.”
“Fuck being DD!” she shouts, and seeing my eyebrows dart
upward with worry, she puts up her hand.
“I don't really mean that. I don't feel like drinking. I just…I do wish
I could just…let go somehow.”
“I know,” I respond, though I don't, exactly. She's still so close to
the vest.
David sticks his head through the back window. “Hey, Morgan, can
you bring me your water bottle?”
Meg and I look at each other with a mutual side-eye, and I take the
water directly to James, who's now dry-heaving at the gate. When I
back away, David's right there, lifting his arm to scratch my back
lightly. I pull away.
“I'm just trying to be your friend, I'm trying to be nice,” he says.
“I'm sorry, but I don't think a friend is someone who disappears to
make out with my freaking nemesis. A friend isn't so obviously
repulsed by me.”
“What? Morgan, what in the world are you talking about?”
I huff.
“That dumb girl I was talking to?”
I open my mouth, but can't muster anything sassy and biting
enough, so I go with the silent treatment.
“If you must know, she just latched on to me. She was drunk,
Morgan. And we talked mostly about you. And the San Diego
Chargers, for some weird reason. It was totally random. If it seemed
like something else…I dunno, I'm pretty trashed…but I swear it wasn't
anything like that.”
I throw my head back, like, Gimme a break.
“I really, really like being friends. Please don't be mad at me.”
“Come on, David. I'm not an idiot. You already said you didn't like
me.”
“Hold on,” he replies sharply. “I like you. I just don't know what
that means yet. Is that a crime?”
James dry-heaves some more as a plane juts through the sky.
NOTES ON THE SARTORIAL AND SEXUAL
PROCLIVITIES OF MORGAN PARKER, FLAMBOYANT
AND OTHERWISE
Okay, so: I don't actually care that David thought I'm gay. Even I'm
only 90% sure I'm not.
(What we've learned about gender and sexuality in school is very
narrow and very skewed. It just seems like more dumb rules: how to
dress, how to talk, how to love. Another list of limited options I'm
pressured to choose from, while I'm just trying to figure out how to be
me. I've never had a boyfriend, and no one's having sex with me, so
what's the big deal with clinging to a label? It all feels irrelevant.)
But this has happened before—me being misread, misunderstood,
mistaken for someone else. I “seem” gay, “act white,” I've got a very
specific look and vibe happening. There's no word that rhymes with
me. That's actually a thing I like about myself, even when people make
fun of me or don't understand—and even when it's the reason for my
loneliness.
All throughout eighth grade I wore baseball sleeves and clip-on
ties, a jean bucket hat studded with snarky pins—those were my
skateboarding days, with Dickies and slip-on Vans. Not because I
wanted to dress like a boy, exactly, but because it was a look. And
when I'm trying out a look, I commit. At our commencement that year
—I was also really into Big Band then, I played Benny Goodman while
applying mint-green eyeshadow for the ceremony—I wore a vintage
chiffon dress and ivory gloves.
In ninth grade my look was a college professor, with penny loafers
and reading glasses on a chain around my neck, sometimes channeling
Katherine Hepburn in pants. Last year was somewhere between Enid
from Ghost World and Zora Neale Hurston in a hat. If having an
imaginative and explorative fashion sense makes you gay (for the
record, to my peers who seem befuddled by basic definitions: it
doesn't!), then maybe I'm gay as hell (also, mind your own business).
People believe whatever they need to in order to deal.
What I mean is, me being gay is not a totally unfair assumption for
anyone to make, and it doesn't insult me. What does hurt about
David's rejection is that I've never been an option to him. What hurts
is the way his eyes bugged out, how he completely freaked at the
possibility of kissing me, as if I'd just suggested we bomb the White
House or something. Am I that disgusting, that the thought has never
crossed his mind? Did I miscalculate or imagine our connection? And
at the same time, I feel like, of course. Of course he doesn't want me.
Why can't I ever remember the price of everything I like about myself?
I should be over it by now, but I don't hear from David all
weekend. Our hug at the end of homecoming night was awkward, all
our muscles tensed up. He doesn't email, and I don't. We don't text. I
don't even text him when I see a guy at the gas station who looks like
Bill Murray in The Life Aquatic.
If it's any consolation prize, I was hungover pretty much all weekend, even at Greek
Orthodox church with my yia yia.
I guess I might as well tell you guys the real reason I didn't give blood is because
men who have had sex with other men can't give blood. I wanted to tell you before you
heard it somewhere else but I didn't know how. I was scared. My sister told me someone in
her class was caught being gay and he couldn't walk at graduation. So please TELL
NO ONE. It's bad enough that the football team found out.
And the worst thing is I think I'm in love with a straight boy. Again. *Sigh* Our
first outing was playing freaking board games at Coffee Bean and it was rediculously
cute. Then we went to dinner and talked about films.
Below the entry Meg wrote:
We don't care if you're gay! We love you and you are our lover!
(But of course she still corrected his spelling and added Oxford
commas.)
I find James after school Wednesday for a hug, and we take a long
walk toward the train tracks downtown, smoking and chatting.
“So, let's hear it.” He grins expectantly. “Are you surprised?
Weirded out?”
“No…” I'm not. But I don't not feel something. Relief? “I guess I
just wish you'd been able to tell me sooner. I'm here for you, you
know?”
“I know.” He lights another one of his fancy cigarettes. A bright
red. Where does he even get these things? I wonder if he picks colors
to match his moods or T-shirts. Selection is never random for me.
“So, do your parents know?”
When James came out to his parents, he tells me, he was sitting
across from them at a booth in Coco's.
“I said, ‘I'm gay.' ”
They said no, he probably isn't sure, maybe he should sleep with a
few women first and figure it out, and by the way, does he even know
what it means?
“So of course at that point I was like, I have sex with men! I
shouted it just like that to shut them up. It was amazing! Such a
scene.” He swats at wild hairs on his forehead.
“Oh my god. So good.” I smile, imagining all the gray heads in the
restaurant turning to stare when James emphasized sex.
I imagine that having remained in the closet for so long makes him
even more lonely and isolated than the rest of us, even though he
seems unmoved by the drama of his existence. It's admirable, his
ability to commit to a certain level of swagger. Still, like me, he
probably removes a mask every night in front of the mirror, feeling
heavy. Being a person in this world is draining.
“I just don't understand why they said you couldn't give blood. Or
that you even had to tell them who you've had sex with. Is that even
legal?”
James shrugs, takes a long drag. “They just don't want our gay
blood, I guess.”
They probably don't want mine either, laced with all kinds of
chemicals and psychopharmaceuticals. Where the intake form asked
for a list of medications I was taking, I only listed birth control. I don't
know why.
“I'm just sorry the night got ruined.” I shake my head. “I can't
believe Jordan Jacobsen! We used to be really close and now he's such
a dick. I don't understand how he could be part of that.”
James lights my cigarette. “He's a boy. He's just acting how he
thinks he's supposed to.”
“Why are people always so disappointing?”
James, I love you! Who is this mysterious man? Do you want me
to beat him up? Kelly, did I imagine you were a little tipsy when
we were dancing to “What's Your Fantasy?” are we finally
corrupting you?! I was so mad at David that night. I don't even
really have a good reason. But he's been sucking up. He texted
me today that he finally watched All About Eve. Ugh, I love
that movie. I love when she downs a martini and says, “Fasten
your seat belts, it's gonna be a bumpy night!” We should do a
movie night soon. NO ROM-COMS.
MAKE A LIST OF THINGS YOU KNOW ABOUT
YOURSELF
“What year were you born?”
“Excuse me?” Mr. K scoffs, American flag pin affixed to his
wrinkled Oxford shirt. He gets exasperated by the mere sound of my
voice. He's just assigned us a “personal essay” about civil rights. I'm
hovering at his desk being cheeky because I was mostly delightful and
quiet for the whole class, plus it's the end of the day and no one's
paying attention anymore.
“Well, I was just thinking, my parents were around for all this, the
civil rights movement, that's crazy.”
“I was young, but yes, I was ‘around for all this' too.”
“So, what happened after?”
He grins like the Grinch. “Well—”
“I mean, after that and before Reagan,” I quip. He laughs smugly.
“I guess I'm curious about black people, specifically. It seems like
we're always talking about Frederick Douglass and Rosa Parks and
then that's it. I mean, what happens to black people between then and
now? We're just quiet in American history until the Obama chapter?”
The bell rings.
Mr. K shrugs. “There's a library down the hall.”
Technically, the assignment is to reflect on one of the cases we
discussed leading up to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but I see it as my
duty to creatively interpret all my assignments, and it's my impulse to
bend the rules to see what I can get away with. Sometimes you have to
be the syllabus you wish to see in this world or whatever.
The school library at Vista, incredibly, does not contain any books
about black life and civil rights in the 1970s and 1980s, so after school,
I head to the public library, my last remaining hope.
Unsurprisingly, as a nerd, I love libraries. Specifically, the public
one near my school, with seats in big bay windows and what feels like
miles and miles of wooden shelves. I'm not sure what I expect to find
here, but I know there are answers in books. I find a computer with a
window view of a big tree swelling with orange leaves. It's Yo La Tengo
weather. I pop in my earbuds and skip ahead on I Can Hear the Heart
Beating as One, because I must hear “Autumn Sweater” immediately.
The song actually feels like wearing a chunky cable knit sweater on a
fall afternoon. It's the perfect song for the trees.
I start by searching “black people” in the library's inventory portal,
chewing on the inside of my left cheek and absently biting a thumb
nail. Immediately sensing my mistake, I type “African American
History.” There are six pages of results, most of which are dated
biographies and books for kids, like the only time to learn about black
history is in school. Like black people are the Pythagorean theorem—
they don't really come up in real life.
I lean back in the hard wood chair feeling defeated. I don't even
know what I'm looking for.
A second-grade-teacher-looking white lady bustles around the
room, moving books from a cart to a shelf, stopping to lean over kids
and recommend them picture books or whatever. A complete and total
Susan, down to the bird sweater. Her face is tight, with thin lips and
wild eyes. Her hair, fashioned into a curly bob, is badly dyed red.
Susans like this make me nervous for some reason. The condescending
type of Susan, whose sole mission is to make me feel like I don't
deserve to exist anywhere. I feel her staring at me, expectantly, but I
ignore her, opening the ancient internet browser.
“Can I help you with something?”
Of course, she's also a close talker. Coffee breath.
“No, probably not.” Not with anything, really.
She contorts her mouth into a grimace—I think she may be trying
to smile. I pull the Black Notebook out of my backpack and flip it to a
fresh page. I don't owe this lady anything, I realize. I've spent my
whole day giving away all my perfectly good minutes to people I don't
like.
And I can't let her distract me.
My Wikipedia journey goes like this: Civil rights act 1964 > Civil
Rights Movement > Black Power Movement. Now we're getting
somewhere.
10/8/08
The Black Notebook: Research
—After Civil Rights Movement, Black Power Movement
—Pacifism was not enough: Black Panthers
—Black Power
—Slogan for movement, Stokely Carmichael
—Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
—1965: Assassination of Malcolm X, uprising
—Watts Riots in LA
—Huey P. Newton + Bobby Seale
—1966: Black Panther Party for Self-Defense
Oh, hell yes. I'm gonna write my paper on the Black Panthers.
Mr. K will absolutely hate it. I stretch my arms and my back, grinning
to myself. No one ever talks about the Black Panthers, except to imply
that they were bad guys. Gun wielding and reckless, angry, a
distraction from true progress and unity via MLK's nonviolence. That's
how they tell it, if they even tell it at all. They're a relic, a bad idea
frozen in time. Meanwhile, I've heard they still hold Ku Klux Klan
rallies a few towns away in Fontana. I guess some things outlive
history, they get to grow into the present. Other things, other people's
stories peter out and expire, or else, get buried.
I look down at my phone and see two texts from David.
hi, how are you doing?
are you mad at me?
I'm not dealing with this right now, no thank you. I'll make him
wait for my response.
—Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
—freedom rides
—Ella Baker
—Freedom Summer of 1964
—freedom schools
—Montgomery Bus Boycott
—Claudette Colvin: 15-year-old girl arrested in Montgomery for
refusing her seat (little Rosa Parks!)
—Rosa Parks!!
Good old Rosa Parks!
The one time I played Actual Rosa Parks, it wasn't a speaking role.
It was one scene, on the bus, and all I did was sit there, look old, and
then get arrested. I knew that couldn't be the whole story.
Rosa Parks was an activist, as a matter of fact. A radical
centerpiece of the Civil Rights Movement. Her protest on December 5,
1955, was one of so many events that fueled it and the Black Power
Movement that followed. Under Montgomery Bus Boycott I write
Emmitt Till. I underline Till's name, put an asterisk next to open
casket. His mother insisted on it. She wanted everyone to see his body
beaten, shot, and mutilated, bloated from three days in the Mississippi
Delta.
He was fourteen. It was the first and last time he felt like an
animal.
Not to sound lame, but I think about calling my mom. I'm like a
missionary filled with the spirit of Black Power; I want to gush about
the good news. (Mom's probable reaction: asking where I am, telling
me about each piece of today's mail, saying “huh?” and then
pretending she hears me, giving a vague unsatisfying response. I do
not call my mom.)
More David: I just wanted to say I'm sorry if I was being shitty
the other night. I knew you were upset but I didn't know how to
handle it. Ignore.
What's wrong with being mad?
In our history books, “African Americans” are always portrayed as
almost saintly or Christlike. They all get hella bonus points for like,
surviving racism. And even if they don't survive it—still, extra credit
for suffering. That's in the Bible I think. Survivors. Joyful endurers of
indescribable torture. Humble and benevolent acceptors of a lesser
fate. Maybe Job was black.
(Servants. That's what the Curse of Ham was about, really.)
(There's a very clear moral takeaway for every Black History
Month lesson, and it's obviously Biblical: Suffer in silence. Be strong,
but casually. Be strong, quietly and peacefully. But which way is the
right way, peaceful protest or armed and vocal resistance? How do we
know what really works?)
Studying civil rights has sadly always felt stale and flat—dates and
legislations without details or living, breathing people. Without the
fire, the fight. I'm just relieved I'm not the only one who thinks mad is
a perfectly natural response.
Notes for my manifesto: If you don't have a map, make a map.
It didn't end with Rosa Parks, it started with her. Rosa Parks is so
punk!
At 6:14 PM I have a text from my mom saying that dinner's almost
ready, and three more from David.
I meant everything I said, that I really, really like you!
I'm just really glad we're friends because we're awesome.
And I don't want to lose that.
I set out making a list of books to check out. When I spot the
coffee-breath Susan obviously staring at me, just like the guy in the
Mormon store, I give her a look right back, raising my eyebrows as she
pretends to shuffle some papers on her desk.
Driving home at twilight, I'm sparking with energy, but my mind is
syrupy with exhaustion. I'm feeling winded and disoriented, like I just
did a Jillian Michaels workout. (Why does she always have to be so
mean?)
HAVING A FIT
Dinner is meatloaf and peas. Malcolm's favorite, and a dish I hate. A
dish Mom either makes when I'm out, or completely forgets that I hate
it, thrilled to be able to please the golden child, her baby, the simple
and charming one, tall, handsome, lean, and popular. Dinner is not off
to a good start.
When we were little kids, Malcolm always got away with snide
remarks or back talk by making my parents laugh, which offended my
core sense of justice. It blew the whole Job thing out of the water—if I
didn't have to suffer to be rewarded, then what were the rules?
My mom dotes on him, pinches his cheeks, gets the giggles at
every goofy thing he says. Ugh! Pushing the stupid peas around on my
plate, my skin tingles as I get worked up thinking about it. Why
doesn't anyone say I'm just as funny? It's just black humor!
It's the part in the dinner where Malcolm is raving about the food.
He always gets to it before me and Dad, and we have to follow behind
in agreement, finding new strings of words to compliment Mom. (It's
not an afterthought, it's an always-thought—the woman has obviously
never made a bad dish in her life.)
“Ooh-wee!” Malcolm hams it up. “I'm telling you, Mom, you
should open a restaurant.” All this for meatloaf and peas. For every A
on his report card, he gets $20; since I always get straight As, I receive
no monetary compensation.
“So, Mom,” I blurt, “what were you and Dad doing when the Black
Panthers and all those people were around? Like in the sixties and
seventies.”
“We were here,” she says, like obviously.
“Dad, how old were you?” Nervous and antsy, I push all the words
together like an auctioneer.
“Oh, I'm not sure, maybe…” I try to count, too, and get confused.
“Were you like in your early twenties? Like before you were
married.”
“I guess so. About that.”
“Did you have an afro?” Malcolm holds his hands high over his
head, cackling, which sends Mom into a full body giggle. So over-thetop. “Can you even grow one?”
“Yeah, I can grow one! Not like that, though.” Dad runs his bear
paw over his thin shiny hair.
“But, I mean,” I press on trying to find my words, “what were you
guys doing?”
“Morgan,” my mom exhales with a loud huff. The conversation is
turning against me. “What do you mean, what were we doing?”
They're not hearing me; the scene is directed all wrong. My mom's
making it Just Another Annoying Episode with Morgan, bugging out
her eyes. “We just told you. What more do you want to know? Eat your
supper.”
I clench my jaw looking down at my plate, and really try not to
turn up my lip as I finish eating. Things are hella tense. I can feel my
dad's eyes pressing on my every move.
“I was just being curious,” I say quietly, trying to get a last word in.
“Forgive me for trying to learn something.” Man, I really messed this
all up.
I know it's coming: Dad's temper, all his pent-up opinions about
me, rising to the surface of the dinner table.
“Morgan, you better fix your face. Let's enjoy this dinner.” He
speaks through his teeth.
“What?” I whine, “I'm not doing anything!”
“You have an attitude.”
(My dad always spits when he's mad. Malcolm and I used to do
impressions of him, our teeth clenched dramatically, erupting in
laughter behind my bedroom door.)
“I don't.” I slump in my chair, and my chest burns, gearing up for a
weepy explosion. A fit. I feel like a complete toddler. I breathe in and
out, deep yoga breaths. Doesn't help. I need pity! I think. I am pitiful
and sorry for myself. I clench my fists and my throat, willing my body
to lock it up.
One more attempt to explain myself: “I was just reading about
some of the history of the Black Power movement and the Civil Rights
Era and I realized I don't know that much about your life. Like the
details. You guys never tell me anything.”
My mom smacks her lips, getting riled up. “Oh come on, stop that,
Morgan. We do tell you things. Now enough.”
“Fine,” I whimper. A tear rolls, like a boulder through the front
door.
Dad hits the table with his fist. “Why do you have to make things
so difficult?”
“Honey,” Mom interrupts, embarrassed now.
“Okay. I know.” He exhales.
“This is hard for all of us.” She turns to him with a low voice. I'm
practically not in the room.
I cross my arms and whisper, deflated, “You guys know I can't help
it. I'm trying! I'm trying to be normal!”
“Come on, Morgan,” Dad sighs. “Don't have a conniption.”
I look down at my plate, hold my hands underneath the table, and
just sit, Rosa Parks style. I can think of nothing else to do but just stop
moving and stop opening my mouth. Wait to get old and tired.
Quietly, in spite of myself and my fate, I produce a world-class
temper-tantrum hissy-fit whimper.
Dad is a volcano, seconds before erupting. He screams. Malcolm
cowers. I ruin every minute.
“Nothing's ever good enough for Morgan. Do you know how hard I
work—”
“Yes!” The tears come, wildly.
“Stop crying.”
“I'm sorry!” I wipe my eyes with the sleeve of my Henley, go back
to pretending to eat the soggy meat. “I really am.”
Why do I have to make everything so difficult?
My mom huffs as she gets up, harshly collecting dishes. “So much
for a nice dinner.” She snatches my plate. Silverware clangs loudly.
Rushing upstairs to my room, I'm hoping for a retreat from myself,
the thing that won't let go of me. It's got its hands around my throat. I
scream into a pillow so angrily that I think I feel my vocal chords
vibrating. I clench my teeth and fists, release the madness in the
quietest, least disruptive way. The air around me feels like needles on
my skin.
I dive into my little dark closet, take root among broken hangers
and shoes I should get rid of and shoes my mom would prefer I wore. I
punch the pillow. Again. Again. I make a new fist and punch the closet
door like I'm Elliot Stabler (with or without a warrant).
Pulling back my throbbing fist, breathless, I'm stunned. It actually
leaves a dent.
—
I'm so tired. I get in bed and curl to my side. I'm tired of crying. I lay
there as my breathing slows, I sink and get covered in the hazy waters
of my own anguish.
About an hour into my quiet sulking, my dad comes knocking.
“Listen,” he starts, hovering in the door jamb. “I'm sorry I lost my
temper.”
“It's okay.” I sit up. “Me too.”
“You all right?”
“Yeah. I'm really sorry,” I start to crack.
“Come here.” He waves me over. “Come give me a hug.”
I rise from my bed, slumping like a folded envelope. The hug is
awkward: he squeezes me, and I put one arm limply around him. Both
of us are vessels of pure tension.
“You know I love you, right?” he says with hot breath, still pressing
my cheek into his Laker's T-shirt.
“Yeah. Love you too.”
I try to pull away. No luck. He's strong, I think, and the realization
makes me love him more and fear him more. He squeezes harder and I
squeeze back, sniffling.
“We're gonna get through this.” He talks into my hair. He's crying.
“You're my little girl. You're my little girl.”
“I know.” I pat his shoulder and he releases me. “I love you too,
Dad.”
“Good night.” He's careful to close my door gingerly. Not only does
it not slam, it makes no sound at all.
That's it, then the Very Special Episode is over. Just a speck of dust
in the massive universe of my bad attitudes and outbursts and ruined
dinners or vacations. God, I am such an exhausting person.
Begrudgingly, I pull my phone from my sweatshirt pocket to face the
Very Special Episode with David. He's sent another, I'm here if you
ever need to talk. I roll my eyes and scoff—I do have an attitude.
I pull on my PJ shorts, put The Exorcism of Morgan Parker on my
old CD player, and take a couple library books into bed with me.
Hearing those first few chords of the White Stripes makes me
smile.
Hi you
Thank you. I'm sorry I was being bitchy. I was hurt and feeling emo and embarrassed and
I don't want to lose you either.
Can we please talk about how fucking badass the Black Panther outfits are.
Oh my god I love you.
I know right
I love you too
BLACK BLACK DOG
I have no clue why a therapist's office would decorate for Halloween.
Aren't we all freaked out enough about our own problems?
Here I am again, the short black girl in the Dinosaur Jr. T-shirt
and plaid blazer, in the waiting room of Susan's office and the waiting
room for the rest of my life, agonizing over whether or not I should
partake in a bowl of candy corn. The soundtrack is the Pixies song
from the end of Fight Club, “Where Is My Mind?” because of course it
is.
Even if I wanted to, and I don't, I could not describe Susan Brady
LCSW's harvest-themed outfit. Let's just say there are cornucopias
involved. I'm not certain my eyes don't bug out when she opens the
door.
Today, her office smells like a bad batch of pumpkin spice muffins.
She offers the tissues and I decline. It's our usual little silent film
short.
“So, I'm off the Wellbutrin,” I sort of blurt, hoping to rush through
the session businesslike. “Dr. Li put me on Prozac last week.”
“Oh. How do you feel about that decision?”
“Fine.”
Susan puts on her peppy radio voice. “It's often tricky to find the
right medication and treatment. It can be quite a transition. I'm here
so we can work through the process together. But once you find the
right dose, along with therapy, you'll be able to maintain. You won't
have so many dips, and they'll be more manageable.”
“I know.” I wiggle a flip-flop.
(She goes on, says something about mountains and plateaus.
Behind my eyes, I envision them as a landscape—red, orange,
burning.)
“I know it doesn't feel like it now, but you're being very brave.
Depression is tough. You know, Winston Churchill battled clinical
depression? He called it the black dog, like a little black dog following
him around.”
“Hm. That's pretty much it. Except my dog is like barking in my
face all the time. Or the dog is eating me.” I want to say, I guess mine
is a Black Black Dog! but I swallow the joke for myself.
Her reliably weird and empty pasted smile. “So, tell me about the
Wellbutrin.”
“It was working, actually. I had a lot more energy, I felt like I could
do things, I didn't feel so bad about myself all the time. But it made my
temper go crazy. I felt like the Hulk, like I wasn't in control of my
anger.”
“Are you still feeling that level of aggression?”
“No, not exactly aggression. Not like the Hulk, definitely. That was
scary. It's more like annoyed.”
“Mmm.”
I breathe and nod slowly, concluding my report. Clumsily grab at a
couple of candy corn in my fingers.
“And, do you still have thoughts about dying?”
“No!” I swallow; the sugar is like pebbles in my mouth. “I mean,
not like that. I don't think I want to hurt myself.”
“That's not what I asked. Do you still think about dying?”
“I'm not thinking about killing myself. Seriously, I'm not. So. You
don't have to worry.” I notice I've been wringing my hands in my lap.
“But, there is something you're not telling me, isn't there?”
(There's a difference between wanting to die and not wanting to be
alive, but no one talks about that difference or what to do about it.
Like, you can be a seventeen-year-old girl who is physically,
cosmically, and innately certain that greatness and potential and the
fucking sun exist in the world just for you, hanging there like a ripe
avocado for you, specifically, to pick. But at the same time, you can be
“clinically depressed,” a “sinner,” stuck in a skin and a landscape that
feels like it's on fire. And you don't know any way out of the fire, so you
just let it win, and try to remember how warm it is, and how when it
covers you, you are at least, finally, not alone. Even if you're not sure
you believe in God, you hope it's real. So you pray to nothing, you do
everything right, just in case. Or, you say Fuck it.)
(I wish I could do one or the other.)
I sigh—it's more of a growl, really. I do not want to be doing this,
and the somersaults in my stomach move all the way up to my neck.
“Okay fine,” I say, unfolding my arms and flopping them like pool
noodles at my sides. “It's not that I want to die, really, but sometimes,
sometimes, I think it might be better if I didn't exist. If I just
disappeared and all my family and everyone got memory-erased like in
Men in Black. If I never existed, their lives would be better. I guess it
just sucks that I'm here and now we all have to deal with that. It sucks
for everyone.”
“You see yourself as a burden to others.”
I nod, trying not to acknowledge tears assembling behind my eyes.
“And to me, too. I'm a burden to me.”
“How do you feel about that?”
“I mean…bad! Guilty. I know it would be messed up to kill myself,
and my family and friends would be sad, but it feels like the only
alternative is being a pain in the ass. I almost think being erased from
the whole world, not ever existing, would be a gift.”
Susan just nods sympathetically, doesn't respond.
“Like, that's a gift I could give.”
The way her eyes soften I can tell she's thinking Cry, cry, just do it,
soften and cry!
But I am vigilant to find my words. I want to explain myself.
“You know that movie It's a Wonderful Life, the Christmas
movie?”
“That's a great movie.”
“I love that movie. I cry every time. And I can't tell if I'm crying
because I love George, and I love how he's so special to everyone in
town, or because deep down, I know I'm not George Bailey. I'm not
this epic person who changes everyone's life. If Clarence the angel
came and showed me what the world would look like if I was never
born, I know that my family and everyone would be happier. I hate to
say it but it's just the truth.”
“And how do you know that?”
“I just do!” I snap, and cross my arms tightly, closing up again. “I
mean, it's fine, that's just reality.”
Susan employs her favorite strategy: silence. She loves doing it
because she knows it makes me so uncomfortable, just sitting there
calmly while I squirm anxiously in my seat and dart my eyes around.
She makes it so I have to sit with whatever I've just said—I'm not
allowed to just zoom past it and make a joke.
Ugh, she's good. I actually have to give her props.
“So, it looks like we're out of time—”
“Oh, okay,” I say, standing up and exhaling for maybe the first
time in an hour.
I pull a folded check from my pocket. It's swirling with my
mother's loopy handwriting, and looking at the number, I think, See?
All this money they spend on me, all this stress—there's no arguing
with numbers.
“This is from my mom.”
Susan accepts it but looks back at me again with probing eyes. I
move mine around nervously, waiting to be released.
“See you in two weeks.”
Dashing for the lobby doors, I give Framed Portrait of Bon Jovi the
stink eye. What does he know? Who wants to live on just a prayer,
especially if you're only halfway there—or in my case, if you don't
know where there is.
Sometimes, after therapy, I feel even more lost than before. I also
feel ridiculous. What was the point of that? I think, seeing other cars
buzz around the lot of the office park, other lives just going on,
regularly, unobtrusively. Other people relaxing without the aid of
several doctors and medications.
Why do I have to make everything so difficult?
THE FAKE RAPTURE
In middle school, I went to church camp with Marissa. Frankly, I don't
know why I thought it would be fun. I hated Vacation Bible School,
youth group, chapel, Sunday services, and any other activity with
Marissa's church. It's too many creepily-friendly white people. A
bunch of bland food, cheesy music.
Harvest Christian Church Camp was a nightmare in this respect.
Overly smiling adults, shorts to the knee, sloppy joes that didn't taste
like sloppy joes, and a trillion group activities. I was pissed I couldn't
get any reading done—the days were packed with chipper strangers
getting in my face about rock climbing or whatever.
One night after dinner and before campfire worship, we were split
into small groups in the auditorium and tasked with writing skits
about Why Heaven Will Be Awesome. It was during this activity,
huddled in a circle with Marissa and three meek strangers, that I
realized I have almost no cold hard facts about heaven. Trumpets?
White robes? No bad words or secular music? Is that it?
(Obviously I could never say out loud that heaven doesn't sound all
that great, since it's supposed to be the literal definition of paradise
and everything.)
Our skit was not a skit at all. All of us onstage looking down at the
beige crowd with theater-kid enthusiasm, exclaiming about what we
most look forward to about heaven.
Marissa said, “I can't wait to walk with my bare feet on streets that
are paved with actual gold! Can you guys believe that?!”
“And we'll never have to go to the bathroom!” I said.
Literally that's what I could offer: the amenities seem so-so, but
mortal bodies are a nuisance. My comedic pitch was terrible. I suspect
the chuckles were pity laughs, or like when my cousins say they're
“laughing with me, not at me” (I'm never laughing when they say that).
The next night, when they asked if anyone wanted to devote or
recommit their life to Christ, I raised my hand. (Why did I do that?)
Walking down the aisle, hundreds of missionary eyes on me, I
instantly regretted my impulsiveness. And when I stood next to the
pastor, his hand resting on the shoulder of my jean vest, all I could
come up with was, “It just felt like time.”
“Fantastic. And we are all here to be your witness and your
strength as you renew your promise. This is a major commitment. Are
you truly ready to be serious about your walk with the Lord, into
eternity?”
I nodded. My stomach churned.
What if I don't even want to go to heaven? What would I do there?
—
One day I was coming back to our cabin from lunch, lagging behind
my bunkmates because I stopped to return a Christian Young Adult
paperback to the “library,” which was really just a short bookshelf in
the staff office. Back at our bunk, I felt uneasy when I didn't hear the
usual obnoxious squeals coming from behind the door. It was silent as
I entered.
The beds were made and empty, each one with an outfit arranged
carefully atop the cover. Some accessories, a Walkman, a lip gloss. As
if they were just deflated, drained of their bodies. My legs went limp.
The walls of the cabin seemed to fall down around me. Dizzy, I started
sobbing, my throat tight and airless.
I've been terrified of the rapture since I heard about it. People's
naked bodies flying upward, walking like zombie ghosts into walls.
What makes it not a horror movie?
And of course. Of course, I was left behind. How could this be it,
my end? How could the world just stop for no reason? Was I not a
Christian?
As I collapsed into a puddle of shock in a corner of the room, my
bunkmates jumped out of the bathroom, grinning. Marissa, all of
them, even the fucking camp counselor. I shook with fear. They rushed
at me, clammy hands on my shoulders. I pulled my knees into my
chest and rocked, weeping hysterically. I am not going to live through
this, I thought.
I had been broken. I was not like them; I couldn't laugh at it. I had
been exposed. A fraud. A nonbeliever. Everyone raptured without me.
“Morgan, it's okay! It wasn't real!” They patted me like a pet
retriever.
“Morgan, it hasn't happened yet!” they reassured me. “And when it
happens, you don't have to be afraid, you'll be with us!”
Folding my hands over my chest, I closed my eyes. “I was so
scared. I'm so scared.”
“How could you be afraid of God's salvation?”
At the time, believe it or not, I wasn't appalled or weirded out by
the staging of the fake rapture, like a regular person might have been.
I'm me, and this is where I'm from, so I was embarrassed, even
scandalized, by my reaction. That's how I know I believe in the
supernatural, but not how they do. I believe in the supernatural power
that spooks me, unravels me, that makes me all the plagues at once.
Years later, though I'm completely vindicated in my decision to
leave church camp the following day, I still feel a twinge of
embarrassment for being the girl who had to leave early because she
couldn't hang, yet again. Waving at Marissa from the front seat of the
Harvest Christian van, on the way to the safety and dorkdom of my
parents, I felt even then that I was somehow sealing my fate. I can't
even fit in where I don't want to.
MYSTIC MORGAN
I am way too stoned for this, holding hands with David and James in
front of the darkened door to Psychic Visions by Nicole, in the plaza
behind Spearmint Rhino. It's Halloween. Meg is trick-or-treating with
her sister, the one who told me I'm brown, and we're doing this. Pretty
much everything we do is to kill time, just like everything we believe is
because we need to believe it, and this particular activity covers both
bases. What better day than Halloween to sarcastically commune with
spirits we aren't sure exist? It's all very Teen Witch.
The shop is filled with incense and plants. Glass cases display
different-colored crystals and stones, arranged specifically, but not in
any pattern I recognize. There's soft New Age music playing, Enya or
something.
(I should not have gotten high. I am like lying-on-the-floorlistening-to-Fleet-Foxes stoned. I want mac and cheese. I'm afraid of
what the tarot cards know and I don't. What my palm could spill.)
A small, deep-brown woman emerges from a private back room
marked with an image of a lotus flower. Presumably, this is Nicole. She
holds a bundle of dried leaves bunched together with string and
burning at one end. The smell is sharp and sweet, the smoke acrobatic
and blooming as it wafts in front of her gentle face.
“Hello,” she greets us warmly, and we all stand up straight. “Can I
help you?”
“We were hoping for some…guidance or something,” James says,
drawing nearer to her. I keep my mouth shut, still waiting for the
clouds of my high to clear.
As she rattles off her services—tarot card readings, palmistry,
crystal meditation, hypnosis, something about chakras—she studies
each of our faces, and nods at James, smiling slyly, before resting her
gaze on me.
“You have a question,” she says, somewhere between an inquiry
and a declaration.
“Nothing specific. Or, maybe, yeah.”
I shift my stance, cross my arms like a weirdo.
“Yes,” she says plainly, almost aggressively. “There is something
you need to know.”
Understatement of the whole damn year.
“How much for a palm reading?” I step forward.
“Five dollars.” A skeptical bargain for a direct line to the spirit
world, but I only have a twenty, and I want to get Cold Stone later.
In the closed-off room, Nicole and I sit in two throne-like chairs,
separated only by a small round end table topped with a single white
candle in a garish holder. I drop my bag and sit, feeling awkward as
hell.
The psychic commands, “Give me your hand,” and I obey.
She speaks quickly and casually, rattling off the information like a
shopping list. I squint down at my hand, too (not like I can see
anything).
“I see a long life—I see health and success—I see you have a gift for
helping people—I see you are a communicator. I'm sensing you have
recently overcome a hardship—does that mean anything to you?”
I nod yes. (She probably says stuff like this to everyone, right?)
“I'm sensing some loneliness, does that mean something to you?”
There's my familiar pain, eager to burst from behind its rightful
gate. I lower my eyes, silently chide myself for being so gullible and
weak.
“I hate to tell you this,” she begins, her voice suddenly maternal.
“I'm seeing a very negative spirit. A negative spirit somewhere in your
past.”
Darkness isn't a bad thing. Open casket. Black black dog.
“You mean my childhood? My parents?”
If you don't have a map, make a map.
“I think perhaps even before them. There is a dark history. Does
that sound familiar?”
“Hmm.” I twist my mouth and slump a little in my chair.
“I'm sorry,” she says, sounding genuine. Maybe it didn't work.
“Let's consult the tarot. It's on the house!”
She rises joyously toward a set of drawers in the corner of the
room. She doesn't walk, she glides, as if pulled by a flock of animated
birds.
“We'll pull one card to help point you in the right direction on your
journey.”
She nestles gingerly back onto her throne and shuffles a brightly
colored deck of cards. They're pretty and everything, but they look
achingly regular. (How can they contain answers? How can they,
cousins of Uno cards, be magic? Or is it her who's divine? Is it me, my
“energy”?) I press my lips and eyebrows together tightly in
anticipation.
“Think very deeply about this darkness,” she instructs with closed
eyes, still shuffling meditatively. “Concentrate on the journey. What
must you discover? What is holding you back? What must you
avenge?”
There is a lot of stuf we don't know.
Police brutality. Harriet Tubman.
“All right.” She flips a card to the table. It's a naked white lady
kneeling at a river.
“The Star! This is such a joyful card!” she proclaims. She sounds
surprised, which makes me feel like shit, because of course, and
because I'm also surprised. An inkling of hope leaps up my spine.
“It is beaming with light, can you see?”
“Um…maybe.” I do not (duh), but suddenly I'm obsessed with
acing the quiz. I want to make the card belong to me.
“The Star is a gift, a guiding light. It is a card of hope, of
inspiration and creativity. See how the woman is pouring water into
the river and into the land? She is generous, and she is blessed. The
Star comes to us to replenish, to offer peacefulness that will carry you
on your journey, to offer clarity as you discover your true purpose.”
“Whoa,” I gasp. “So, what does that mean for me? What's going to
happen to me?”
“That's not really the sort of thing the cards can tell us. They tell us
where to look, what to remember. How to get there, but not where
there is.”
I consider this for what feels like forever, searching my brain for
the meaning, I don't want to be the one in the group standing back
from an abstract painting for like an hour, still insisting I don't get it.
If the universe wants me to be happy so badly, why is life such a
disappointment? Honestly, I just want her to say, I see the end of the
movie, and you win.
When I walk through the velvet curtains I've almost forgotten it's
daylight. James rushes at me holding out three necklaces with
different colored crystal pendants.
“Which one?”
“Jade.”
He saunters up to the counter and places a gentle hand atop
Nicole's. “I would like to purchase this, please, and I am also
interested in a reading of my chakras.”
James and Nicole draw the velvet curtains closed behind them,
and I join David under the shop's awning, where he's snickering down
at something on his phone.
“Sooo? How was it?” He sings snarkily as I light a cigarette.
“Stop laughing!” I flirt. “I don't have to tell you.”
“I kind of don't get why you guys wanted to come here, anyway.”
He says it like it's an admission, like it hasn't been obvious all
afternoon. “No offense, just, maybe you're not as doomed as you think
you are.”
He looks away from me, so I look away from him, smirking with
butterflies. Funny what passes for a compliment these days. Not
doomed is not the same as beautiful and amazing, but I'll take it.
(David Santos is sucking up. He gifted me a mix for today, likely an
attempt to cement our just-friend-ness. It's called “Mystic Morgan,”
and starts and ends with Sonic Youth. “Teenage Riot” and “Do You
Believe in Rapture?” respectively—he is definitely sucking up. Also
cleverly featured: “Ghost” by Neutral Milk Hotel, “Every Artist Needs a
Tragedy” by No Age. I have to give him credit; he makes a hell of a
mix.)
“Yeah” is the totally unacceptable thing I say in response.
—
Wrapped in a cloud of marijuana come-down, I feel a prickly, scary
excitement from my session with Nicole. She saw something in me,
I'm sure of it. Something dark, of course, but also something
promising, something full of love. Maybe I've been trying to get in
touch with the wrong spirits. Maybe there are spirits, ghosts, who are
on my side.
Darkness isn't a bad thing.
There is no going back.
“Do you guys want to go see Saw 5?” James blurts from the
backseat as soon as the car starts. He checks showtimes. I don't care
about anything. I switch to the final track of “Mystic Morgan.”
“So, are you like totally pagan now?” David leans into me
scandalously, trying to be cute. I know why he's teasing me, but I don't
want it. “Did you learn the secrets of the spirit realm, or what?”
“It was just like ‘you're on a journey,' or whatever. Just like,
bullshit. Anyway, none of your business.”
“Bullshit,” he repeats, scoffing.
I know that I basically instructed him to laugh it off, but all of a
sudden, I'm disappointed that he's obeying. I feel further away from
him than ever.
EVERY ARTIST NEEDS A TRAGEDY
This is a story about me, and I am the tragic antihero. Me and my bad
ideas. This is a story about me believing in nothing.
It begins delightfully! In the opening shot, three sort-of-stoned
suburban young adults in ill-fitting denim are gazing up at a marquee
of corporatized pleasures delivered in criminal portions. All around
them, children run amok in identical Halloween costumes. The
soundtrack is Spoon and Arcade Fire.
“I might just get Milk Duds and call it a day,” David announces to
James, with his signature blend of casual and thrilled. “You getting
something?”
“Oh, I'm not sure, young David,” he replies. “I might be sort of
obligated to Raisinets, or Sour Patch Kids. It's a ruthless duel.”
We laugh our way to the counter. I get “Uh, I don't want anything,
no, wait, what are you guys getting again, actually I'll have Junior
Mints, yeah I'm sure, no, nothing else, a water cup.”
While James accessorizes his popcorn, David looks over at me.
“You really like those things?”
“Oh, I fuckin' love Junior Mints, dude. I used to eat them as a little
kid.”
He guffaws. “What about like, you know, sour straws or Airheads—
you weren't into any of that?” He flings a hand into the air; those
deadly dimples crinkle perfectly with his grin.
“Oh no, too sweet for my taste!” I play, feeling loose. “I mean, I like
an occasional Trolli worm, but I have a very sophisticated palette, my
dear and darling David.”
It's just terrific, gold-star banter. Then I see a Hollister polo shirt
and skate shoes coming right at us. It's Jake Walker, looking smarmy,
breezing up to the three of us like we're all old friends.
“Hey, Malcolm's sister.” He smiles like a puppy, lowered head and
absolutely reckless eyelashes. “Morgan, hey.”
I take the bait because it never hurts to practice flirting, right?
Whatever, I can't help but do my own little bashful routine and smile
sweetly back. “Hey, Jake.”
“How are you guys?”
“Just trying to go see a movie and you?” James blurts, suddenly
tightly at my side, the fake butter smell wafting like cologne.
“Yeah, uh, dropped my sister off at Beverly Hills Chihuahua and
I'm going to see Saw 5.”
“Us too,” I laugh.
James looks Jake over. “How 'bout that.”
“Hey, so, James, I heard what happened after homecoming,
something with Mike Pinkskyzif?” He talks fast, rushing the words and
flicking his movie ticket nervously. “Hey, man, I just wanted to say I'm
sorry about all that shit. I wasn't there but, I just wanna like, apologize
on behalf of those guys.”
Skeptical, I purse my lips and suck my teeth.
“Whoa,” David takes a step back. “Who are you?”
James reaches out for a handshake, his smile only slightly curdled.
“Thank you, I appreciate that.”
“Cool.”
“Let's never talk about it again though.”
Jake laughs comfortably. “Cool, cool. I just was like, I have to say
something, that's not cool.”
“It really wasn't,” I snap, newly enraged at Mike Whatever and
Jordan freaking Jacobsen.
“Should we head in?” David to the rescue. “Are you, what's your
name? Are you sitting with us, or…?”
“Hi, I'm Jake.” He rocks on his heels. I feel him looking at me. “I'm
just by myself…Would you guys mind?”
“Sit with us!” James grabs at him.
It begins delightfully, like in a Tarantino film. Sharp colors, good
music. It feels real.
Walking into the darkness of the theater, sitting shoulder to
shoulder with his Abercrombie cologne as the animated soda cup tells
us to turn off our phones, I feel Jake Walker leering.
“Can I have a Junior Mint?” David's on my other side, all hopped
up on sugar and loud.
The theater darkens. The volume booms.
“Can I hang on to you if I get scared?” Jake leans, whispers at my
earlobe, and I tee-hee like a girl or something.
“Just, don't be annoying about it.” I love-tap his shoulder.
Everything feels like pretend.
In the first scene, a giant blade swings like a pendulum. Dread and
giddiness fill me.
Jake Walker's wide hand is stretching itself out on my thigh. I'm
not doing anything about it.
“You okay?” David shoves the Junior Mints back in my face,
eyeballs pointing at Jake's fingers crawling diligently over me. No one
ever asked David to come to the rescue.
Elbowing him, I nod. Jake's wet mouth is warm against my
earlobe.
He purrs, “Wanna get out of here?” I weigh my options, but not
long enough to consider their consequences, which I don't really care
about, anyway. Exiting the theater into the light of afternoon, I
squeeze his hand, disgusted with myself.
—
This is a story about how I end up in the parking lot of the Empire
movie theater in the backseat of Jake Walker's Ford F-150.
WHAT DO YOU CALL A FEMALE BLACK BLACK DOG?
He's aggressive, we start going at it immediately, tongues reckless. He
bites my lip, kisses my neck sloppily, breathes into my ear as he palms
my breasts. It's fast and exciting. We make out with vicious purpose.
He leans me back onto the bench seat, straddling me, and starts taking
off his belt. I glide my hand over his chest, surprised at how excited I
am, surprised at who I'm being.
“Come here,” I whisper, and lift my head, opening my lips. I kiss
him slowly and deeply; I'm training him. I can feel how hard he is, and
I'm pleased with myself. This is what I'm supposed to be doing. This is
the power I'm supposed to have.
“Fuck, this is so hot,” he breathes, unbuttoning his jeans.
I giggle excitedly and move my fingers across my waistband. “It's
so unexpected!”
He frees his penis from his boxers. The thing is super hard, like
pointing straight ahead. And it's pretty big. I smile up at him, eyes
glassy with excitement.
“Oh God,” he moans. “I've seriously always wanted to do a black
chick!”
I almost gasp. I have no words or courage. I feel bitten, sliced.
So, I laugh.
This really gets him going, but not how I want. “I knew you wanted
it,” he pants. “I could tell you kinda liked me. Let me see that black
pussy.”
I wriggle underneath him and start to sit up. “Wait. What?”
Running my fingers through my hair, the ecstasy lifts. “No. No,
this isn't what I want.” I pull my sweatshirt down and wipe his slobber
from my face.
“Aw, come on,” he whines, sliding his hands between my legs, and
he isn't gentle at all. “You little slut,” he cackles menacingly. “God, I
wanna fuck you so hard.” It's like he's reciting phrases from a script.
He fumbles with the button on my pants, and I press my backside
into the door, searching blindly for the handle. I finally manage to get
the door open and jump out, and I want to shout, You can fuck
yourself!
But I don't say anything.
Now his entire demeanor changes, and he stares down at me from
the raised truck with his veiny white penis exposed. I stand frozen with
the door still open, grimacing at him. I want to get the hell out of here
ASAP, but I also want some vindication, an apology, anything.
“Oh hell no. You cannot just leave me like this. Come on, shit, I
was just playing. Just, please.”
“This is so gross,” I mumble to myself, shaking my head at the
concrete. I push the heavy blue door closed and pause for a moment,
just breathing. In shock.
I'm not sure what else to do, so I head back toward the theater. I
have no plan. I have no clear assessment of myself or what just
happened. I feel tears welling up in my chest, then tight anxiety, then
vivid, vivid anger. Spicy-food-in-the-belly anger. I walk faster,
focusing on the light of the marquee. Beverly Hills Chihuahua, The
Secret Life of Bees, Eagle Eye. I think of David and James and the
warmth of Nicole's Psychic Visions, the afternoon sun, the simplicity
of my frustrations just earlier today. Why do I have to ruin everything?
I always make everything so difficult, so dramatic. I always fool myself
into thinking I can be someone other than myself.
(“What is it with you?” my dad said to me once during a screaming
match. “You go immediately to always, and everyone, and everything.
That just isn't the truth!”)
The entrance to the theater is fairly empty, the stairs leading to the
box office quiet except for a few smokers with Mohawks. At least I am
lucky in this moment; I can collapse onto the steps and berate myself
in peaceful quietude.
I consider texting David or James but don't. Pull my knees into my
middle, feet together. Then I stretch them out. I'm totally restless.
Cold. Or maybe I'm shaking?
Suddenly, out of the corner of my eye, I see Jake's raised truck
revving through the parking lot, and I tense up, butterflies smack-dab
in the center of me. As he speeds past I can tell through the tinted
windows that his hair is disheveled, his eyes wild. He's zooming. My
chest pounds like a jackhammer. Then he rolls his window down and
whistles. System of a Down blasts crazy loud. What a stupid band.
Even the Mohawks turn and frown at it.
“Black bitch!”
He sounds like he's speaking through a megaphone, or one of
those voice-changer things from Home Alone, or as if all his racist
neighbors and ancestors are grabbing his balls and slapping the back
of his head saying Be a man.
I weep.
What I decide to do next is pretend like nothing happened.
—
The next week, Barack Obama wins the presidency. We have a black
president, for real. However unlikely, a small part of me hopes that
maybe this will spur some change in my life, too. Maybe things will be
different from now on.
On election night, our family gathers in the living room as the
results come in. We all drink champagne, even me and Malcolm, and
watch coverage of people celebrating in Washington, Chicago, New
York, flooding the streets. Our street, unironically named Ivory Lane,
is dark and quiet. It's just Tuesday around here.
My dad blubbers silently in his spot on the couch, all snotty and
breathless. My mom balances on the very end of the cushion, holding a
hand to her mouth and shaking her head like she's in church.
“Kids,” she says to Malcolm and me as we sprawl restlessly on the
rug. “Do you realize how important this is? All the years we have
fought and fought for this? What people went through…”
“It's history,” Dad chokes, his voice hoarse from crying.
“Yeah,” Malcolm and I both reply gravely, seriously, and then we
keep gawking at the mayhem.
“So important,” I echo, and I try to mean it. But I don't know. Not
really. No one ever wants to tell me the details.
NOW IS THE BEST TIME IN HISTORY FOR ME TO BE
ALIVE
Suburban white kids have a game they like to play: If you could go
back in time to any period, where would you go? It's supposed to be a
harmless icebreaker, a chance to disclose your love for Medieval Times
or The Oregon Trail or the annual Renaissance Pleasure Faire (“Ren
Fair” to the dorks), how churning butter at Knott's Berry Farm was
always your favorite field trip. A chance to play dress up, to imagine
what it was like.
I try not to imagine being a slave, but it's impossible. (Is there any
clearer metaphor for my life than fourth grade, the Year of the
American Girl Craze? Decades of Mollys and Kirstens and Samanthas
to choose from, and the only Black American Girl is a slave.) They're
always expecting me to pull the black card, take everything too
seriously, disturb the fun, and be a downer once again. I try to hold my
tongue and not point out the inherent flaw in the question's
ramifications—specifically, for me. I just try to play along,
whitewashing myself into various fashions, trying to feel entitled to
any dress. But technically, right now is the best time in history for me
to be living. (How depressing is that?)
During my 1950s housewife phase, for example, spurred by a new
obsession with black-and-white movies and the discovery of an
adorable vintage store in Laguna Beach, I tried not to think about how
my dresses were probably worn by white women whose houses were
cleaned by my grandmother. I tried not to imagine how it would feel to
be pressed against a brick wall with a firehose, to be spit on and called
a nigger.
I always wait too long to say what hurts.
—
If I went back in time to any period, who would I be? Would I be silent
and passive on the diner stool while wiping a stranger's saliva from my
eyes? Would I be militant like the Panthers? Would I wear all black
and go to secret meetings in basements, would I march right up to a
white cop and dare his baton to touch my skin?
If I was a slave, would I be a Yes, massa, suck-up kind of slave, or
would I risk everything and navigate the Underground Railroad for
even the slimmest chance of freedom? Would I be the version of Rosa
Parks they make me play at school assemblies, or would I be like
Actual Rosa Parks?
What kind of person am I? Eager to win approval from my white
friends (and even foes), to play along even when I'm injured; as eager
as my teachers to approve of passivity as civil disobedience, to keep
the peace and blend in.
The thing is, it's never quite suited me, civility.
Reading Assata Shakur's autobiography made me believe. It was the
first time I'd heard this part of the story in our own words, not a
teacher's or a textbook's. There's no way to argue with her first-person
account. The FBI targeted her, they lied in court, and she got put away
for murders she didn't do. Black people were routinely framed by cops
and the government as criminals and villains, when they were fighting
for their rights, for their justice and liberty for all. They weren't wrong.
They weren't terrorists. They had a kind of bravery, belief, and
fearlessness that I'm scared to even imagine. But it was a disturbance.
It messed up the status quo. Their revolution was scary—too radical,
too intense.
This is why the truth hurts: all the years I've spent clamping my
tongue and shrugging off the sting of being “Most Unique,” all the
acrobatics of attempting to blend in and be accepted by white people,
all the impulses I've been ashamed of, the feelings I've punished
myself for and the thoughts I've tried to correct. (Isn't that the whole
point of sins? To remind you that you're always wrong? Even if they've
been “washed away,” they still count—you are inherently flawed.)
Now I realize I've been lied to all this time, fed incomplete and
discriminatory stories, especially about myself and my people. It sinks
my heart to the ocean floor.
THE VELVET UNDERGROUND RAILROAD
My cousin Coco and I have this thing about cranberry sauce—it has to
come from the can, so when you pop it out, it has those ridges for
slicing.
“You want a separate plate for yours, too?” I ask, almost butt to
butt in Aunt Carolina's kitchen, going in making our Thanksgiving
plates. It's tradition for us to make our plates together, shimmying
with excitement over the buffet trays of sweet potatoes and greens and
green beans and turkey and ham and cakes and sauces.
“Obvi!” Coco giggles and pretends to toss her hair like a white girl.
My favorite cousin, the girlie one who's only a month and ten days
older, agrees with me on the important things, like keeping cranberry
sauce juices away from the mashed potatoes and corn pudding. “You
know I hate when my food touches.”
We've been a duo since we were little: the “Caboodle Girls” is what
we were called for a while. That was back when I made clubs for
everything—mini backpacks, bucket hats, whatever—anything we were
into, we had to be super into.
“I think I have enough for my first round.” I eye the precarious
borders of my dishes, suddenly daunted. “Where we sitting?”
“At the kids' table.” She points, and I drop my plates down across
from Malcolm, who's shoveling mac and cheese into his mouth and
grunting happily.
“Two plates?” My brother gawks as Coco and I settle in,
considering what to taste first. “Y'all are bougie.”
“What-ever!” Coco sings nasally, and Malcolm pinches his nose,
mimicking her. She laughs from her whole chest, loud and
uncontrollable, just like her mom after a Cadillac margarita.
I smile, wishing I could muster the same revelry, but I'm too tired.
I don't even have much of an appetite.
(No one in our extended family knows I've been “going through a
tough time,” and it was decided in the car on the way over that we
wouldn't discuss it. That's our secret shame, our bond, our blemish
and burden. I'm putting on my best face, teasing Coco about her last
boyfriend's big head, dodging long conversations with grown-ups like
a professional.)
“Morgan! You gonna make us do a play again this year?” our older
cousin CJ snickers between bites, eliciting an over-the-top groan from
Malcolm.
“No, I'm retired! Jeez, I was, like, eleven.” I smirk. Our Christmas
plays were legendary and ridiculous in their ambition. I worked on the
scripts for months, assigned everyone acting and production roles,
obnoxiously interrupted cocktails and conversations to demand
silence during our performances.
“But you have to admit,” I add, thrusting my finger into the air,
“those were kinda awesome!”
“You used to be so intense!” Coco cackles. She does her impression
of me, which is terrible. “Mal-colm, your line!”
(At least with this crew, I know my role. And yeah, maybe they'll
relentlessly tease me for it, but they've always accepted my intense and
difficult ways.)
I give in, laughing at all the projects and productions I was once so
serious about, so committed to. “Don't worry, I'm still intense.”
“Y'all are so giggly!” My mom pops over to our table, being such a
mom. “Everybody good over here? Need anything?” She always eats,
like, an hour after everyone else, needlessly distributing extra napkins
or whatever. It's super sweet, but I also wish she would just hang out
with the rest of us sometimes.
“We're good,” Malcolm says quickly. She pats his head. Because
we're not at home, he doesn't try to jerk it away.
Kids can never be their real selves around extended family. Not
exactly. You have to be the version your parents like, the version
they've approved, because you're supposed to be a little representative
for them. That's what the teachers tell us before we go on field trips
and stuff—we're representing God's Word. Like, no pressure.
That's why I had a whole breakdown before we came over here.
First, my mom said, “Is that what you're wearing?” which she asks
every single time we're going out, and every single time it upsets me,
pokes my insecurities right in the gut. I changed my shirt five times
and my pants three times. I tried my hair up and down and up. Then I
messed up my lipstick and just lost it. Barricaded in the bathroom,
trying to catch my teary breath, I felt like screaming. I was so pissed at
myself, and I squeezed my eyes shut, willing myself to get over myself.
When my mom knocked, I expected a screaming match about my
brattiness, about how I'm too sensitive and how I have to make
everything a drama.
But she wanted to help me through it. She wiped my face and
rubbed my back, and we shared a cup of Constant Comment while my
breathing slowed. I wanted to let the dark cloud pass, just like I always
do—and this time it worked.
Antidepressants aren't magic or anything, but six months ago I
couldn't get myself to stop crying no matter what. Once I entered a
mood, I became the mood. Now, sometimes on good, bright days, I
literally stop and notice flowers. They're actually awesome.
—
The next night, after epic turkey sandwiches and mounds of mac and
cheese, I'm completely taken aback when Malcolm comes to my room
and asks if I want to take a drive, like old times. A surprised laugh
escapes as I toss down my book, Ain't I a Woman: Black Women and
Feminism, by bell hooks.
“Okay.” I shrug. “For sure! Right now?”
“Yup. I made a mix.”
—
Outfitted in flip-flops and hoodies, we hop into my car. The night is
unusually chilly, almost like real fall weather, so I flip on the heater
immediately, rubbing my hands together as the burned-popcorn smell
wafts in our faces. Rudy's signature musk smells especially sweet. I
love Rudy.
You can always escape.
I turn to Malcolm. “The usual route?”
“Sure.”
As I back out of the driveway, Malcolm fishes a jewel case from the
pocket of his basketball shorts.
“What's on it?”
“You'll see,” he says, turning up the volume and rolling down his
window. I roll mine down, too, and light a cigarette, speeding on the
dark road toward the quiet side streets we like. Malcolm giggles as the
first song comes on: Maroon 5's “Sunday Morning.” Our guilty
pleasure. We pinkie-swore never to tell anyone how much we both
secretly love it, how we can't help ourselves from belting the chorus
and the fake R & B intro. And that's exactly what we do, wind at our
cheeks and our hands catching waves in the night air. I let out a long,
exhilarating yelp.
We take the long way to Redlands, skip the freeway and drive over
a creepy bridge we love to adventurously cross. We bypass the houses
of our friends and classmates and take teeny roads as far up as we can.
I have to give it to Malcolm: his playlist is damn good. Our guiltypleasure songs are padded by Grizzly Bear, Beirut, Nico. I feel pretty
proud, honestly. I taught him well, like a big sister should. We're more
alike than I remember. Maybe he could understand me, and maybe he
wants to.
As we near The Spot, I don't know what comes over me, but I slow
to a stop and park. For the record, I am fully aware of its sanctity and a
firm believer in unwritten (and Yellow Notebook–written) rules,
especially when it comes to my group, but when Malcolm looks over at
me, puzzled, I say, “I wanna show you something. Come on.”
Maybe I want to connect with him, or attempt to. (Maybe I want to
be the antidote to David's rejection. I'll try again to love and be loved,
and maybe this time I'll be vindicated.)
—
At the ledge, the view has the power it always does: we fall silent in
reverence and reflection. I search my tote for a Black and Mild; I
always keep a couple on hand for moments like this.
“Want one?” I ask from one side of my mouth, cigarillo hanging
from the other like I'm James Franco playing James Dean or
something.
“Nah, not during the season. Sometimes I'll do chew with the
seniors, though.”
“Whoa, really?” I manage to laugh but feel a pang of disapproval.
“Want some of this?” Malcolm—two years my junior, whose head
my family teasingly refers to as a cantaloupe, whose birth angered me
so much that I bit his infant forehead—produces, out of nowhere, a
water bottle. One of those water bottles: undecipherable liquor bathed
in Gatorade. I seriously almost choke.
I know I can't go all prudish on him, though I weirdly want to, so I
stifle my shock.
“Uh, maybe just a sip. Since I'm driving.”
“Be my guest.”
“Where did you get this?” I take a swig and my mouth puckers at
the sweetness. “And what is in this?”
“I swiped a little vodka from Mom and Dad's cabinet. It's my
recipe: vodka, orange Gatorade, and cream soda.”
I laugh and shake my head, staring down at the few cars on the
highway. I'm speechless. Finally, I manage, “Dude, you really love
candy.”
Malcolm takes back the bottle, grinning mischievously, and
indulges in a nice, long drink.
“So, what's up, little brother? How's life?”
“It's cool.”
I shift on the ledge to adjust my butt. My flip-flops are filling with
gravel, but I don't care.
“What about girls?” I nudge him goofily with my elbow. “How
about Sarah Yates? She's cute.”
(Sarah and Malcolm have been tight since the fifth grade. She's
smart, kind, and it's obvious she has a crush on him. Once, when they
were studying together in the living room, I saw the way she giggled at
him, and to my surprise, I thought it was sweet. They make a cute
black couple. Maybe at least one of us can have a normal healthy
relationship. She seems like the type of girl who would try to be my
friend, too, try to blend in with our family. She wears these cute
flouncy skirts and her hair is in long braids. She is so not punk, but
cute for Malcolm, I've always thought. I've always been jealous of both
of them.)
“Naw, we're just friends. She's cool, don't get me wrong. I just
don't like her like that. Besides, I'm not really into black girls.”
He says the words so easily, like they don't mean what they mean.
Here it is: knife to my heart. The letdown. My whole stomach leaps
into my throat.
“What do you mean?”
“I don't know…I guess I'm just not attracted to them. And they're
always so loud.”
(What I know everyone is thinking when they see me: No. Or
something even grosser, if they're “into black girls.” “Black pussy,”
Jake had whispered, spraying his saliva all over my neck. I don't know
which is worse.)
I nod solemnly, quickly advancing through rage, embarrassment,
horror, and finally settling on disappointment and grief. I swallow my
pain and hold my tongue and try not to make everything so difficult.
(Even Malcolm, I think, heartbroken.)
Malcolm doesn't seem to notice my wheel of emotions. He goes on.
“I mean, there's only two black girls in my class, anyway.”
I laugh inadvertently. It's more of a cough, really. “True.”
“I don't know, there is someone I've been talking to. Maddy
Walker? I kinda like her. But I don't know, we'll see.”
“Like, Maddy Walker like Jake Walker?”
“Yeah, you know him? He's in your class.”
I grab the bottle and gulp the disgusting cocktail. Whatever.
“Oh, I know him,” I say, nervously lighting another cigarette. I'm
gonna have a sore throat tomorrow. “He is…he's not a good guy.”
“What do you mean? He's always nice to me at football.”
“Yeah. Nothing, never mind. Forget I said anything. Maddy's nice!
I mean I don't know her, but she seems okay.” I stiffen. Dangit. The
same word vomit and bad attitude that ruins every moment.
“We should probably go after I finish this, I guess,” I sigh.
“Yeah, probably.”
—
“Are you better? Like, cured?” Malcolm asks earnestly on the drive
back, lowering the volume on American Football's “I'll See You When
We're Both Not So Emotional.”
“It doesn't really work like that, Malcolm,” I say quickly. Then I
add, “But, yeah, I guess I feel a little better right now.”
“Cool, cool. You seem better than before.”
At a stop sign, the van in front of us has a license plate that says In
Case of Rapture, This Car Will Be Unmanned!!
“That was scary,” he adds, lowering his head. “No offense.”
“I know. It was scary for me too.” I turn onto a residential street
that looks almost exactly like ours and slow the car, glancing over at
him. “I'm sorry you had to go through that. I know I'm not an easy
sister.”
We're quiet as the song fades, and the Velvet Underground comes
on, “Candy Says.” We are almost home.
“I hope you keep feeling better, sis. It's gonna suck when you leave
for college.”
It's so abrupt, I don't know how to respond.
“Ah, come on.” I smile slightly, cruising ahead and letting the
achiness of the song wash over me. “At least you won't have to deal
with me bossing you around and being so intense all the time.”
“Well, that's who you are,” he snickers.
“Yeah,” I sigh with a snort, “I guess it is.” I've heard some people
talk about a part in the cycle after grief—acceptance.
I sneak a look over at Malcolm and notice his eyes are welling with
tears, his mouth slack. “I'll just miss you,” he says quickly, wiping his
eyes in one swoop of his sleeve.
“I'll miss you too.” I get a little smooshy—wind chimes sing in my
chest. “But that's not for a while. We have some time.”
“Truuuue,” he sings, then busts up when I join on the highest note,
shaking his head and begging me to close my mouth.
I have no idea if I have the hypothetical and figurative balls to be a
Black Panther, or Actual Rosa Parks, or to risk my life leading
hundreds of slaves to freedom. I don't know where I'm going when I
die, and I don't know where I'm going after graduation, and
sometimes I don't even know if I want to keep being alive. But as long
as I'm here, and I'm me, I will definitely be intense, ridiculous,
passionate, and sometimes hilarious.
THE ROAD TO FREEDOM
The Diaries of Morgan Parker
Monday, December 1, 2008
I'm in detention for the first time in my damn life. My whole life.
And my life has been pretty long. I mean, you might not think so,
but I do.
I don't really know what I'm supposed to do in detention. The only
other people here are two fake-stoners that I'm pretty sure
are here every day, and they're just sleeping with their heads
down on their desks. Mr. Howard is at his desk looking bored,
grading essays about Thoreau. I know because he already gave
mine back. A+. At the top, next to the title, “Solitude Is Better
than Society: Thoreau Transcends at Walden Pond,” he wrote,
“You are an excellent, talented writer!” It was a helluva good
essay.
I love writing, even though I never do it anymore. I used to, pages
and pages of stuff like stories about girls my age with terminal
illnesses. Most of it wasn't stories, though. It was just about me
and how I felt. So full of emotion. I loved it. I think I just like
the way words sound and how you can make them do whatever
you want. Reading beautiful words makes me feel like the world is
so big and amazing and painful. That's what I liked about
Thoreau. That guy really knew how to talk about loneliness and
how everything about modern society is so full of crap. But he
was optimistic, which is more than I can say. I liked when he
said, “I did not wish to live what was not life.” Dang.
Am I supposed to think about why I'm here? Well, I'm here for no
good reason. Technically, for being “disrespectful and disruptive”
in Government class this morning. Well, you know what I think is
disrespectful? Only teaching the parts of history that you like.
Whatever. This is what happened:
Harriet Tubman.
Did you know Harriet Tubman carried a gun? I've never realized it
before, or else I was not encouraged to consider it. But, you know,
of course she did. You can't escape slavery (several times!) armed
with just quick wit and street smarts. (Or slave smarts.) It's
not like those footprints in the sand could do anything to protect
her. The other guys had guns, so of course she did, too. In
pictures she's always standing still in her shawl, and the only
thing in her hands is a lantern and some kind of walking stick—
like she's actually Moses from the Bible.
White people really take things literally.
Pop quizzes on Mondays are perhaps the biggest treachery I have ever
endured from a non-familial adult. It's only something the asshole
teachers do, and only when they're feeling particularly lazy and
spiteful. It's an easy way to punish us without doing much work at all.
They'll begin the class with a pop quiz, feeling haughty as they pass
warm sheets of paper down each row of desks, and basically chill until
we're finished. After that we're instructed to stare at a horrible film or
read the next chapter of our textbook in complete silence as they grade
our haphazard answers. Totally unfair, and completely hellish.
This one's fill-in-the-blank, which, in Mr. K's class, is obviously a
complete trap for me.
Here are some sample questions from today's quiz:
Harriet Tubman's nickname was _________ because
____________. (Bonus points for Scripture
memorization.)
Harriet Tubman was a ________ during the Civil War.
Slaves used ___________ to communicate instructions
about the Underground Railroad.
Slaves were freed in ___________, as a result of
_____________________.
Because I'm not an idiot, and I know exactly what the deal is, I
resist the urge to write: “Harriet Tubman's nickname was Minty
because her real name was Araminta,” a fact that I only just learned.
Must have gotten lost in all those years of “African American History”
Months that drilled her abridged and approved biography into my
memory.
Just like with Rosa Parks, I've always weirdly assumed Harriet
Tubman to be matronly and unassuming. Unsatisfied with the usual
blurb on Harriet Tubman from our Christian school textbook, I
decided to do some more research. Turns out she was a boss. In
addition to being a fugitive during the civil war (the “Moses” Mr. K's
looking for, with extra credit for Exodus), Harriet Tubman was also a
nurse, a cook, a scout, and a spy for the American government. She
also carried a gun and vowed to use it on anyone in the way of her
freedom. We never learn any of that in school.
Anyway, I don't write what I want to on the quiz. I don't write
anything on the quiz. I guess I do it out of protest. I'm just not in the
mood to play along.
I look around at all the diligent bowed heads and quickly try to put
on a “serious” face, eyebrows all scrunched. Staring down at the halfsheet of printer paper, I try to move my pen around to make it look
like I'm writing, but I'm not.
“Time's up!” bellows Mr. K, appearing smugly at the first row of
desks. “Hand your quizzes up.”
Pages flutter, and I sneak to mix mine in with some others so no
one sees my blank page; the only markings are my name and the date.
That's gotta be worth something.
—
For the remainder of class, we watch a movie called Amazing Grace
which no one has heard of because it's a Christian movie for
distribution only in Family Christian bookstores and youth group
movie nights. This movie is all wrong, dude. It's not about American
slavery at all, and Harriet Tubman is nowhere to be found. Instead, it's
about some white British Parliament guy. It's so random and super
boring, so I zone out for pretty much the whole time.
The bell finally rings and I'm more excited than I have ever been to
go to Calculus.
“Morgan, can you please stay after class?”
I stiffen, a notebook half into my backpack. “Uh, okay. Yes, yeah.”
Shoot.
Meg darts a worried look my way and I shake my head.
“I'll see you at lunch,” I say. I pretend not to notice how she keeps
hanging out in the doorway for a few more seconds.
I sling my backpack on my shoulder and suddenly Mr. K's
hovering right behind me, creepily. He's so tall, I'm just now realizing,
as I stare up at the patches of prickly gray on his chin. I hate hovering,
everybody knows that. I hate it almost as much I hate P.E.
“So, let's hear it.”
“What?” I cross my arms, sigh heavy, and bend my head down. I'm
prepared for a condescending, right-wing-tinged lecture.
He sighs back at me and places a pale hand on his doughy waist.
“Morgan, I know we have our differences.”
I open my mouth to snap back, but he holds up a finger to stop me.
I slump and try not to roll my eyes. I have learned from experience
that rolling my eyes, even inadvertently, really sends pissed-off
grown-ups over the edge. To curb my bubbling aggression, I try to
think of something else. Assata, Harriet, David, the Curse of Ham,
Jake Walker, my Bummer Summer…
Turns out I don't have very helpful material for Zenning out.
“I know we have our differences, but you've always been one of the
brightest students in your class. I would hate for you to jeopardize
your grades just to spite me with some liberal protest. Now, tell me
what's going on. Why didn't you complete the quiz?”
I part my lips, but I have no words. I haven't thought this through,
so I just stare down at my shoes.
“I'm trying to reason with you, Morgan. I know you know this
material. These quizzes are worth ten percent of your grade.” He
lowers his voice gravely. I can tell he's trying to soften his face like one
of those concerned and super-involved teachers on Degrassi. But he
sort of looks constipated. “Is everything okay at home?”
“Everything's fine at home, yeah. I just…I didn't do the quiz
because…I didn't feel comfortable.”
(This my best impression of an adult sentence.)
Clearly running out of patience, Mr. K tips his head back. “What
could have possibly made you uncomfortable about these questions? I
thought the African American History unit was one of your favorites!
Is this a feminist thing?”
“No, it is not a feminist thing. It's just…It kind of…wasn't the
whole story. So, for instance, did you know that Harriet Tubman was a
SPY for the government during the Civil War?! And, did you know that
Harriet Tubman wasn't her real name, and that there was a bounty on
her, and she was armed? We don't talk about that. I know that wasn't
on the quiz, but I'm just saying.”
“Exactly, young lady, you're right. Those weren't questions on the
quiz.”
“Well, they should have been.” As soon as I say it, do I regret it? Do
I want to stuff my words back into my mouth while they're still
hanging in the air? Or does saying it feel good?
“Excuse me? Miss Parker, I'm frankly very tired of your disrespect
and sassiness in this classroom. It's distracting and unacceptable.”
He trudges to his desk and opens a drawer, still talking in a highpitched, reprimanding tone. “You'll go to detention today, and if we
have another problem, it will be suspension. And I shouldn't have to
tell you that you will also receive a zero both for the quiz and for class
participation today.” He scribbles something on a pad and hands it to
me. “You're dismissed.”
It's a detention slip. I've never even seen one before. It says
Insubordination.
“And, Morgan, you don't know everything.”
I stuff the paper into my back pocket and leave without saying
anything. Neither do you.
YEAH, BUT NOT REALLY BLACK, THOUGH
I didn't ask Meg and James to wait for me after detention, but when
I'm released through the school's double doors, there they are, my own
Ponyboy and Sodapop rising from the steps to meet me.
“Welcome back.” James slaps my shoulder.
“Ugh, that was a waste of an hour of sunlight vitamins.”
“Coffee Bean?”
“Sure, okay.”
While I drive, James riding with Meg somewhere ahead of me, I
pout and stew. I feel myself sinking into the misfortune of the day, to a
place I'm terrified I won't return from.
I'm so out of it that I go to the wrong coffee place, in the wrong
plaza altogether, and it takes me forever to get to the Actual Coffee
Bean, craning my neck to check every identical shopping center I pass.
James and Meg are already at a table on the patio when I finally arrive,
anxious and out of breath.
“Sorry.” I slump into my chair with a grumble.
“What happened?” Meg ogles.
“I went to the completely wrong plaza.”
“Oh. Well, that's understandable.”
(Every strip mall here follows a very specific and formulaic
pattern: chain grocery store (Vons, Albertsons, Stater Bros., Ralph's,
Trader Joe's); chain drugstore (Walgreens, Long's, CVS, Rite Aid);
chain coffee shop (Starbucks, Coffee Bean, Peet's); nail salon; and one
to two miscellaneous storefronts—usually a See's Candies, a Mail N
Copy, a pet spa, or a dry cleaner. It's not uncommon for residents to
misremember specific groupings, such that one might pull into an
Albertson's shopping center expecting a pet spa but be met with a
Starbucks instead. It's a lot to keep track of, with very few identifying
visuals to help one discern any difference at all, which is another thing
I hate about it here.)
I stretch my legs, willing the sunlight vitamins to work their magic
and repair my mood. Meg offers her drink, but I pass. I don't feel like
anything.
“You okay, buddy?” Meg chirps with a long face.
I snap, “I'm fine,” and look down at my Docs. I hate my stupid
socks and I hate that I feel bad and I especially hate that Meg knows it.
I wish I could “fix my face” as my mom would say—it's like my attitude
is tattooed all over me. I suck in a deep breath and when I exhale, I
imagine that I'm lighter, chiller.
“Um, what'd I miss?” I reach for Meg's drink, trying to start over
and just be normal. It's too sweet for me.
“Soooo,” James starts, smacking his lips after a sip. “It's straight
boy crush's birthday next week and I have absolutely no idea what to
get him. Like should I go super friendly, like a David Lynch DVD, or
flirty like chocolates and essential oils?”
“Okay well, first of all,” I snort, leaning over the table like we're the
Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. “I don't even know what essential
oils are, so definitely don't do that. Second, it's amazing that you just
called David Lynch ‘friendly,' I totally agree obviously,” I chuckle,
counting out my points on green nails. “But, this is a hard one. What
does he like?”
“I don't know….He's sweet, and straight….He has a nice broad
chest.”
Meg snickers, “And you're saying we don't know him, right?”
There is not an inch of subtlety.
“Maybe chocolate and a movie?” I squint, guessing in the dark.
Meg lets out an Oooh.
“That could be cute, and you could invite him to watch together?
No, sorry.” I shake my head. “Don't listen to me. I have no idea what
I'm talking about.”
“Ugh, whatever. I'll get him DVDs. Or maybe I won't get him
anything. It's not like he'll care.” He slumps back into his chair, and it
is the slump heard around the Inland Empire. Meg reaches over to
stroke the side of his face, what we call a “hard-pat.”
“I'm super sorry he's not into you, dude,” I say softly. “You should
be with someone awesome. I wish we could all find someone
awesome.”
“Me too! My goodness, a relationship would be good right about
now. Even a short one. But real boyfriends, not just Yellow Notebook
conquests. Speaking of—”
She slips the tome out of her tote with a pen, opens it to the inside
front cover.
Sometimes we fall for pricks.
She glances at me as she dictates. It stings, but I let it.
“Amen,” James agrees.
“I know, I know,” I spit, raising my hand in concession. “I'm
moving on. I just need a distraction, except everyone basically sucks.”
“We need to meet new people.” James nods with wide eyes.
“But what about Coco's Waiter with the Hair? You never updated
the Notebook.”
“It's not a big deal or anything.” Meg smiles down at her acid-wash
jeans, suppressing excitement. “But he is very into me. Like, I am
definitely hot right now.” I love Meg's pleased-with-herself grin; it's
inspirational.
James and I squeal dutifully, throwing jazz hands up. I almost lose
balance in the unstable chair at the surprise of good news.
“Um, we need to know everything!” (Truthfully, I'm a teeny bit
stung that this is the first I'm hearing about the development. But I
keep ignoring my feelings.)
“Well, okay. So, when we played Halo that one time last month
with his friends, it was super awk, he said basically seventeen words to
me, but he's been randomly texting me quotes from Gilmore Girls,
which he apparently loves, so I think he's pretty much perfect.”
“Oh God.” Months ago, it was one of our little bits: me
overdramatically complaining about Gilmore Girls; Meg offering
spontaneous recaps of that week's episodes. This time, for some
reason when it leaves my mouth, it feels sour and cruel. Am I bitter?
Just keep your mouth shut for once.
“I know, I know. But I really like him. I think we could be good
together. Don't you think, Morgan? How good would that be?”
“Yeah, totally, I know, it would be super good.” [(!)(?)]
“We're having lunch this week we decided.” She adjusts the child's
barrette in her side-parted hair—a penguin—and quickly adds, “I think
I'll make a move.”
“Great!” I squeak, clapping my hands together. I can tell it sounds
insincere, but it isn't, I don't think. “You got this!”
“Definitely make a move,” James insists. “He probably has a huge
crush on you and is intimidated.”
To think—I once thought that about David Santos. I was so stupid.
It stings, and I don't want to let it. (“Whatever, I don't really care” has
been my official stance; all I have to do is keep repeating it until it's
true.)
“You guys are right,” Meg swoons cheerily. “He's gorgeous and
when we hang out it will be fantastic. I don't know why I always expect
everything to go horribly.”
“Ugh, I feel you. Lately I'm reaching mountaintop levels of
misfortune.” I fake a laugh and cross my arms; the same move I pull in
therapy to undercut the grief.
When my friends don't jump to refute and assuage me, I'm washed
in relief—I don't want pity, I just want someone to hear me. Meg looks
over, offering her hand, and I take it. We braid our fingers together
and wince into the sunset, like two middle-aged women at the end of a
Lifetime movie. James hums the bridge of a Fiona Apple song and
starts playing a game on his phone. I feel my exterior soften as the bad
attitude relents.
“I'm starting to feel kind of crazy,” I say slowly, hesitant to unleash
who I was this summer. I could revert back to that raw, emo puddle
any minute. “Not crazy—just, I can't make anything go my way. Who
gets detention? I don't know why I didn't just write the answers on
that stupid quiz.” I shake my head at my shoes, sighing through my
nose.
“Yeah…,” Meg tries gently. “Why didn't you?”
“It's not like me, right?!” We exchange wrinkled foreheads before I
drop mine back in disgrace. “I don't know. I guess I just got frustrated
with how dumb our school is.”
James snorts a smile, tips his head into his palm. “What do you
mean?”
“I mean…” I loosen my hand from Meg's and huff. “Do you guys
remember last year, when Jenn Hanson said she thought the
Underground Railroad was a real railroad?”
Meg rolls her head, “Oh my LORD! Yes, that was completely
ridiculous!” They cackle, and I grimace.
“Shit like that,” I snap. “And it's like everyone's totally fine with
being ignorant. The only people who get rewarded are the football
players and the Popular Christians. And they're just basically mean,
conceited people in Abercrombie polo shirts whose parents go to
church with all the teachers. Anyone who actually wants to learn stuff
is labeled a freak. And it doesn't matter what I do. I'll never have blond
hair, so I'll never be cool enough.” I mumble the last part, leaning my
cheek against a fist.
“Those people are not cool,” James concludes definitively.
“I like being weirdos!” proclaims Meg with fervor. “I don't ever
want to wear a dress. Or wear pink. Or be one of those girls who draws
her eyebrows. Why do they do that? They look like cartoons.”
I'm not in the mood to giggle. “It's not the same, though, Meg.” I
suck my teeth dismissively. “It's harder for me because my skin color
is different.”
They don't rush to placate or correct me, but now they're just
staring blankly. Relief has vanished; tension is thick in its place. Meg
sits on her hands, looks down at her shoes, sniffs. James shifts in his
chair and it creaks on the pavement, clucks his tongue, squints at the
sun. I'm definitely not being heard.
“You guys really don't understand what it's like to be black in this
country. Even at our school! You know what? Especially at our
school!”
“Yeah but, you're not really black,” scoffs Meg. “Not like ‘ghetto' or
whatever.”
“I have black skin, so I'm black, okay? Black does not mean
‘ghetto,' or ‘urban' or whatever. I hate when people say that.”
James chews on his lip, eyes ping-ponging between us.
“That's what I'm trying to say,” she says in her arrogant “practical”
voice. She's never used it on me before. “You're not just black, you're
you. You know what I mean.” It makes me feel ridiculous.
“I do, and I don't agree with it!” I stand up, press fists against the
mosaic tabletop, trying to formulate a final word. “It hurts my
feelings!”
“That's not what she meant,” James says, reaching to rub my arm.
“We're just trying to help you feel better—”
“And like, feel better about what? How I was born? Why should I
always have to be the sad one?”
“We're sorry, Morg,” Meg pleads as I collect myself. I hate that she
uses an unapproved abbreviation of my name, trying to tame me with
fake intimacy. (I'm pretty staunchly anti-nickname. One thing I
actually like about myself is my name.) “For real. I really didn't mean
to upset you so much.”
“Whatever. It's fine. I have to go.” I wave manically, mumbling
“See you tomorrow,” and nearly crash into a sandwich board
advertising eggnog lattes.
In the parking lot, I lean against my car window. “Rudy,” I
whisper, “sometimes I think you're the only one who understands me.”
Without hesitation, I send a quick SOS text to David and fold
myself into the front seat. I have zero desire to go home and face the
parental shame of my detention or the reality of my suburban
imprisonment. I flip through my CD case for something comforting,
mashed potatoes for my ears. I put on Elliott Smith's XO and skip
immediately to “Pitseleh,” and I listen to the whole sad and elegant
song while the car idles and the sun fades.
At my last session, over Thanksgiving Break, Susan gave me a
holiday-themed exercise to do. Gratitude. When I feel hot with
frustration and angst, I'm supposed to think of five good things that
have happened to me.
Won essay contest ninth grade.
Trip to Hawaii with Malcolm, Mom, and Dad when I was twelve.
How Malcolm and I couldn't stop laughing when Dad went crazy at
that sushi buf et.
TGIF sleepovers with my cousins when we were little.
My fifth birthday party, the Beauty and the Beast cake.
I stop at four. It takes effort to recall those good moments without
attaching them to some horrible memory that came before or after
them. It is actual deliverance when I look down to see a text from
David: Say no more. Come to 7-Eleven parking lot on Florida Ave.
Just finished band practice with some buds.
He's in a band?
MAKE A LIST OF THINGS WORTH FIGHTING FOR
David Santos is sitting in the trunk of his mom's station wagon, red
Vans swinging, drinking a Slurpee.
“Hey.”
“Hey.” Pulling at the waist of my black skinny jeans, I hop in and
scoot next to him.
He slings a loose arm around my neck. “So, you had a tough day,
kid?”
I exhale, surprised to find that this—commiserating with my friend
David in the back of a station wagon in the parking lot of a 7-Eleven—
is exactly what I need right now, like I didn't realize how pent-up I've
been. I launch into the gory details of the day, glad to have a soapbox
for my woes that isn't Susan for once. Or my parents, or anyone I'd
have to be delicate with, bend the truth with.
I tell him all about how I got detention because of Harriet
Tubman, about how I feel like the world is conspiring to keep me from
the real truth about stuff.
“Gnarly,” he replies gravely. “What are you gonna tell your
parents? About the detention, I mean.”
“I have no idea, dude. I don't even want to. They'll be pissed, but
they can't be mad. My brother's had a million detentions and this is
the first one I've ever gotten. They know my teachers are assholes to
me. It's not really that big a deal, I just wish I could stop doing the
wrong thing.”
“Oh, Morgan.” He grins. “You might not know it yet, but
everything you do is the right thing.”
I lean my head onto his shoulder and sigh. “Then this other thing
happened…” I start to tell him about being “not that black,” but I don't
want to feel the words in my mouth. I just want to be glad the day is
over.
“Ugh, forget it. It's not even worth talking about.”
“All right…,” he says suspiciously. “I'm here if you ever want to talk
about it.”
I swat my hand as if at an obnoxious housefly. “It's just, you know,
white people.”
“Gotcha,” he says quickly with a laugh.
“Wait,” I gasp, sitting up to yank at the sleeve of his I <3 NY Tshirt. “Back up. Uh, where's your band, and also, you're in a band?
What the hell?”
“Okay, I mean, not really.” He puts his hands up, cowering in
embarrassment. “I can play two and a half songs on the guitar. We've
never played a show or anything, or even like in front of anyone. We
don't have a name. We just hang out every month and mess around.
Anyway, they're getting peach rings…and actually, here they come.”
Two guys are approaching us from the illuminated oasis of the 7-
Eleven: one kid with long blond hair on a skateboard wearing a
wrinkled white oxford shirt and a wide dad tie, and the other—lightskinned with a short, unkempt afro—holding a skateboard under his
armpit, and an open bag of peach rings in his other hand.
“Morgan, meet the band without a name.” David gestures.
“Overdressed here on the drums we have Matty, and the one with his
mouth full, you already sort of met on the phone. This is my cousin
Sean.”
Yep. He's as hot as his voice sounded over the spotty
speakerphone.
“Favorite cousin.” He flashes dimples just like David's when he
smiles. I laugh to myself—Coco would say the exact same thing, and
just as immediately.
Sean's light brown eyes are flecked with amber, and they shine. It
kills me. I stupidly grin and wave.
“Hi, Morgan, a pleasure,” he croons as I shake his hand in a totally
uncool way.
(Confession: I love skaters. Not that I've ever dated one, or really
know any, but in my mind, they're somehow my people. I know they're
not too far off from the football guys, but they seem chiller and kinder,
if not just too oblivious to be cruel. I can imagine no Jake Walkers
among them. This is a simple class of bro, with simple needs and
pleasures. Shaggy hair, lean muscles in their arms, a breeziness in the
way they move. Like bro ballerinas.)
“What up.” Matty nods and high-fives me.
Sean tosses the candy into David's lap. “Overdressed and
Mouthful, by the way, is not a bad band name.”
“We'll add it to the ever-growing list.” David pulls on a gummy
with his teeth.
Matty jumps off his skateboard and leans on it in one graceful
move. “Okay, but we should probably also, you know, learn a song?”
“That does sound pretty important,” I offer.
“See, she gets it!” Matty presses, as David and Sean instinctually
wave him off. “Morgan, any interest in joining a band?”
“Oh, come on!” David shouts. “You can't just trade us in!”
I'm trying to be in on the joke as much as I can, but unfortunately,
I happen to be an extremely awkward teenage girl, also clinically
diagnosed with major anxiety and depressive disorders.
“Sorry, I don't play any instruments.”
“Neither do these idiots!”
(I excel at being one of the guys, always have. There's no mistaking
my energy as feminine or flirty. I'm a total non-threat, too emo to exist
on a plane of cuteness. And despite my boobs, my body's stocky and
weird—sometimes I feel like my shoulders are perched up to my
earlobes, masculine and out of proportion. In pictures, I always look…
sturdy. Like my emotional baggage is showing. While the downsides to
my asexual aura are copious—see: Operation David Santos—guy
friends are an undeniable perk.)
“Hey,” says Sean. “I write all the songs and design the album
artwork. That's a thing.”
“Whatever, Basquiat,” Matty teases back, relenting. “Anyway, I
gotta go. But seriously, dudes, let's meet again in two weeks to work on
that chorus, okay?”
“Yes, Dad.” David rolls his eyes at Sean, snickering. The boys fistbump each other. Their intimacy is cute.
I force a chuckle, but even though I just met him, I'm on Matty's
side—I have to root for my fellow intense people.
“Lata. Good to meet you, Morgan.”
“Yeah, you too.”
Once Matty's out of earshot, Sean leans in toward me. “We give
him a hard time but it's only because he's like, a legitimate musician,
and also because we love him.”
“Plus,” David adds without lowering his voice, “he's our token
white.”
Sean snorts and I giggle, “Of course.”
“Listen up!” David exclaims. He's hype. “Do you guys want to
make a fort in here or what?”
And suddenly he's peak zany David, doing the most. He crawls up
to the front seat and turns on the car battery to play Devotion by
Beach House, rustling through all the crap that lives in his car (what I
call “a mess” and “garbage,” he calls “a system of alternative
organization” and “supplies”), and tossing towels, throw blankets, and
half-eaten candy bars back at us. We assemble ourselves in the wagon
bed, blanket over our legs, a patchwork of dirty shoes and chocolate
wrappers and our reeking feelings. It's getting dark, the 7-Eleven is
having a slow night, and I think maybe this is what camping is like. If
it weren't for the smog, there would be an ocean of stars up there. If it
weren't for the parking lot, and everything just beyond the parking lot,
the night might feel romantic, inspiring.
(I've gotten very good at pretending I have more than I do. Or
maybe, in some moments, I have everything. That's what I mean about
stopping to notice the flowers, as dreadfully and sickeningly corny as it
is. It shocked me. I hadn't looked, really looked at one in forever.)
David pulls a joint from his jeans pocket. He lights it between two
fingers and inhales dramatically, holding the smoke in his chest and
emitting a croaky cough. Bows his head, offering it to us. Sean accepts,
but doesn't smoke it. When David finally looks up to face us, he's
deadly serious. “So, okay, I have to tell you guys something.”
Sean has an immediate good-guy reaction, burrows his thick
eyebrows all concerned and gently reaches out to touch David on the
shoulder. “What is it, buddy? Everything okay?”
He passes me the joint and I take a little bit, careful not to inhale
too much. I'm not in the mood. I chew on my lip, stay quiet, like if my
body is still, my mind will be, too.
David shakes his head, gingerly accepting the joint from my
fingers. “Naw, I'm fine, it's just…Do you guys ever feel like you have no
purpose? Like you're just here taking up space for no reason?”
Sean's chest seems to expand, like his heart is trying to escape.
“Hoo, buddy, do I! I actually thought I was the only one who's totally
clueless about how to do this life thing. I keep expecting it to just click
one day, but instead, I just get older.” He laughs nervously at himself.
Of course, I'm completely swept up by his vulnerability, by
David's. Of course, I want to scream Yes! What is happening?! Are we
going to be okay?! But I don't want to bring up the events of July 22,
2008, because I don't want them to be real. I don't want to carry the
darkness around; I don't want to face my shameful secret. I just want
to move on and be like everyone else, not sick. So I just go, “Yup.”
“Actually, Morgan, you got me thinking about all this stuff. You
know when you were telling me about that poem by Assata Shakur?”
“ ‘Affirmation.' ” I nod and recite the first line: “I believe in living.”
David leans into his cousin. “Do you know about her? She was a
Black Panther and part of the Black Liberation Army.”
“The FBI arrested her for a bunch of murders she so totally did not
commit,” I add. “I was just reading her autobiography, and it's
awesome.”
“Whoa.” Sean smiles. “Wasn't she Tupac's aunt or something like
that?”
“Yeah, his godmother!” I lock eyes with Sean and immediately look
down with a shy smile.
“Dope,” he says, hands folded over his knees.
“So, anyway,” David continues, “I was mentioning this stuff to my
dad, and out of nowhere, he tells me how he got beat up by the cops
back in the day.”
“What?” Sean blurts.
“Yeah,” David says flatly. “When we lived in San Diego, when I was
a baby.”
“What happened?” I gasp, and David's chest rises as he closes his
eyes in a deep breath, as if at a pulpit.
“So, my dad was speeding, I think? Or maybe he was doing
nothing. I don't know. The cops pull him over, and then they didn't
just arrest him, they beat the hell out of him. Like, with freaking clubs,
their pistol grips, but also just shoving him into his car with their bare
hands. He had bruises all over, his eyes were swollen.” David exhales.
“Jesus,” I utter at some point.
Sean shakes his head like he's seriously going to cry, but I think it's
just the way his eyes shine. “Poor Uncle Ron.”
“He spent the night in jail. As soon as my mom bailed him out, he
pledged to take down corrupt cops. He wrote this op-ed for the
newspaper, he held a meeting with all his neighbors, it was like his
thing. But after a couple years—and mind you the whole time my dad
is like getting way deep into it and my mom is taking care of me, which
as we all know could not have been easy—people in the city started
getting aggressive toward him. Someone left a note on our doormat.
Someone else spit in my dad's direction while he was at the mall. He's
just shopping for khakis at the mall like a regular dad!”
“Wow.” Sean looks devastated, slowly shaking his head, but I'm
beginning to think all of his reactions are big ones. “Just, I had no idea
about any of that.”
“Dude, same. I don't even know if your parents know all about it.
And obviously my dad stopped trying to kick up dirt like that. That's
like, a hundred percent not what he's like now. Anyway, I guess that's
one of the reasons we moved out here when I was little.”
“That's crazy,” Sean says, and a gust of wind floats his hand my
way a little, brushing our thumbs. I pretend not to notice. “I guess I
could see Uncle Ron getting fired up like that. Like, for something he
cared about.”
I say, “That is super crazy. It's awesome, though.”
“It really is,” David says, “and the thing is, I wish I knew that
version of my dad. The badass version. On some level I get why my
parents moved and became all suburban, but I also want to know more
about those rebels.”
“Totally,” I say. “It would be cool to know I have some badass in
my genes. That's how I feel reading about the Black Panthers. What
was it like to be so committed to the cause?”
“Exactly!” David throws his hands up like spaghetti to a wall.
“That's what's bugging me! I just keep thinking, what do I care that
much about?”
I'm nodding emphatically. “For sure. Sometimes I feel like I could
have that in me, but I don't know what to do with it.”
“So, let's figure it out already. Let's do this.” Sean says this so
firmly, it startles me.
“Do what? Take down cops? Right now? I gotta go home, dudes,” I
joke, my weird impulse in the face of sincerity.
“No, I mean let's all make a pact to figure out what we wanna fight
for. Look, the whole country is all cranked up on this ‘hope' stuff. The
president is black! Anything can happen.”
“True.” I raise my eyebrows at David in consideration, and he
shrugs back. “I guess there's more possibility now….maybe.” I hate
that I can't stop thinking too much, about everything that's wrong.
“So why should we be left out of all that, out here in the middle of
this wasteland?” Sean gestures empathically at our particular
wasteland. “Stuck being depressed in the 7-Eleven parking lot…”
I feel pricked by the d word. Anything can happen. You can
escape.
“Hey, I love this 7-Eleven,” quips David, and Sean elbows him,
laughing.
A small, sleepy smile creeps onto my face. I wish I were a different
kind of person. I wish I could look ahead, be hopeful. I wish it with all
my heart.
“We can call it an end-of-year resolution. Anyway, that's what I'm
doing,” Sean concludes. “I am so tired of being so bored, man.”
If this guy isn't in student council, he really is doing things wrong.
I'm totally swayed.
“Okay,” David sticks out a hand for his cousin, “I'm in. If Ron
Santos can fight for something, then so can I, right?”
“Absolutely,” I agree, and I think I mean it. “I'm in, too.”
My whole life other people have been telling me what's important,
literally telling me what to care about and who to root for, how to
behave and think. I've been a good student, obedient and determined
to do everything right. But what if I could follow Harriet, or Assata,
and refuse to play along? What if I could be in charge of myself?
HARRIET TUBMAN COMES TO ME IN A DREAM
Harriet Tubman comes to me in a dream. She's on a talk show set,
with a glass coffee table between her and another black lady.
“Harriet Tubman?” I ask.
“Yes, I am.”
She sounds kind of like Beyoncé in interviews. I turn to the other
lady.
“Are you Oprah?”
“I'm you, in another life.”
There are other people scattered in the audience bleachers—kids I
recognize from school, some moms from my art class, David and Sean,
but Harriet Tubman and Other Me are only talking to me.
“Harriet Tubman, are you also me in another life?”
“No way. But I could be.”
Other Me becomes the only person in the room. She leans in so
close our noses are almost touching, and everything around us goes
black.
She's just as annoying and dramatic as I am.
She says, “What are you doing?”
(NO SUBJECT LINE)
From: aaaaaaahhhhmeg@yahoo.com
To: daria_but_black@gmail.com
12/1/08 6:17 PM
Lover,
that was messed up today, I know. I'm so sorry we hurt your feelings. We
seriously didn't mean to offend you. I love you. James does too. I owe you In-N-Out.
I'm sorry everyone in our stupid town is a boring idiot. At least we're way cooler and
smarter than pretty much everyone.
<3
From: Sean.something42@gmail.com
To: daria_but_black@gmail.com
12/2/08 10:24 PM
Hi Morgan,
Dave gave me your email, hope that's ok. It was great meeting you last night!
I'll definitely have to check out that Assata book. I was wondering if you might
wanna hang out sometime?
Text me 909-555-6500
Peace
Sean Santos-Orenstein
From: davidneedsahaircut@yahoo.com
To: daria_but_black@gmail.com
12/4/08 1:08 AM
Hey btw forgot to tell you I gave my cuz yr email, figured it was ok since u are both
huge nerds
ttyl
ds
THE DIARIES OF MORGAN PARKER
December 3, 2008
*listening to Steely Dan—Two Against Nature (forgot how good
this is!!!)
It's me again of course, old crazy me.
Meg and I made up because why not. Everything else sucks. A lot of
things can be fixed with cheese fries and laying in the grass. Even
when my friends don't understand me, they love me at least.
They'll probably drop me eventually or we'll drift away. That's just
how things go. But right now, here we all are.
This year has been crazy. It's the year where nothing is as it
seems. Everything is different: my friends, my style, my ideas
about the future. Most importantly, my idealism and romanticism
have shifted to the dark realm of realism, which leaves me with
a bleak view of life. Nonetheless, here I am, five foot nothing,
scared to death. I wish I were in control, but I am who I am. I
like to be sure, except I cannot in fact recall a time in which I
was actually sure of myself. I am stressed, inquisitive, immature
(I admit it), confused, discouraged, and obnoxious. But quietly and
secretly, I think I am a grand, passionate hero. I know that
sounds super dramatic.
DO YOU KNOW HOW MANY WAYS YOU CAN FEEL
YOURSELF EXPLODING?
In this moment I feel particularly suburban. I'm aware that my world
is small and today is only a sliver of my life, a blink. Meg and I are
chewing on iced coffee straws and browsing the little boy's shirts at
our favorite Salvation Army, across from the Stater Bros. where Coco
works. We hopped in Meg's dusty car after school feeling silly and
light. It's a sunny windy day, and there's nowhere else for us to be. I'm
almost nostalgic for how boring it all is.
“Oh my god,” I say wryly, holding up a heather-blue shirt with
neon lettering. “I must have this.” It's from the church down the hill
from my house—Marissa's church—and it says, “Fantastic Journey
with Jesus.” I giggle with utter delight.
“Oh, most definitely,” Meg bellows across the aisle. “That is
fantastic!”
“What'd you find?”
“Well, this I'm getting for sure,” she models a bright yellow tee that
says OK in thick block lettering, gives her best Zoolander face.
“Yes!” I laugh. “Actually, it kinda looks dope with that outfit.” She's
wearing a black and red flannel, skinny jeans, and what she calls her
“shit-kicking boots.”
“So, um,” she starts, shuffling hangars indifferently. “I'm sorry
again I was being such an ass on Monday.”
“I know, dude.” I nod. “I'm past it, really.” We mosey around the
store, bopping to “Heart of Glass.” (Is it just me, or is Blondie always
playing in a thrift store?) I'm pulled as if by a magnet to a row of
blazers.
“I just wanted you to know…I felt really bad….” She hangs at my
side chewing her lip.
“I know,” I whine. “And like I said, I forgive you, and we're cool, I
promise.” I hold up a houndstooth number that would swallow me;
return it to the rack. “It's just…I get really tired of people trying to tell
me how it is to be me. Like, there are some things you just can't
understand. And that's okay! Like, that's good!”
“I know.” She lowers her eyes. I shouldn't keep pressing, but it's as
simple as this: I want to. I want to say my piece—I owe at least that to
myself, to Harriet and Assata and all of us.
“That's the thing, though. You don't have to pretend to know. You
could ask me stuff, you know. Or just listen. Like, if I wanted to know
something about heavy metal bands, I would go to you. I wouldn't try
to speak on that, you know?” I stumble on a marvelous velvet navy
jacket that's almost too good to be true at $8.99. I pull it from the
hanger as I keep waxing philosophical, keeping my tone even (no one
will be telling me Don't get so emotional today).
“Sometimes I feel like white people can't bear to be left out. Like,
maybe it's an A and B conversation, you know? Okay, what do you
think?” I adjust the lapels and stand up straight.
A smile creeps to her mouth. “Damn, that is perfect.”
“Isn't it!?” I squeal, gathering it in my arms with my other goodies.
“Anyway, I'm sorry about all my feelings,” I say to her face.
“You and your feelings.” She rolls her eyes, and the way she smiles,
I know we are family.
“Okay, but what about this one?” I present a green plaid Tommy
Hilfiger blazer.
Meg scrunches her nose. “Don't you already have one exactly like
that?”
“Ugh, fine, you're right.” I slump. “It's probably time for me to cut
myself off on the blazers.”
On our way out, plastic bags weighing down our wrists, Meg halts
to marvel at us in the storefront window's reflection.
“Let's take a picture!” she dives into her tote bag excitedly.
We stand there in our small town, heads tilted like clinking
glasses, me in my sweater and button-down, so stumpy in my Vans
next to Meg's long spindly form, and looking indescribably cool in
shit-kickers, disposable camera held out next to her face. We strain to
hold cheesy smiles as an old car screeches past, blaring Lil Wayne. I'm
fairly certain we're cackling or blinking in every frame she snapped.
I'm fairly certain that we're glowing in every shot.
—
In her car headed back to the school, we shoulder dance to “Tainted
Love,” one of our jams. I goofily sing along in a ridiculously terrible
soprano until she's begging me for mercy.
“So, can we finally have a movie night this weekend? Before you
get all intense again about finals like you were about PSATs.”
“I was not intense!” she snaps, and I cower apologetically.
“Some of us have to study, Morgan,” she says with a voice.
“Straight As don't just come easily to everybody.”
It pinches. She's right, but I never really thought about it.
“I know, er,” I pivot, “I'm sorry, Meg, you're totally right.”
“There's some things you don't know about, too,” she snarks. “That
was actually a really hard time for me. I didn't want to talk about it
then, but…” She shifts gears merging onto the freeway—though we're
getting off at the next exit. (This is the logic of our home.)
I say, “Are you okay?” just as she's starting to say, “I don't know.”
We let ourselves laugh at ourselves.
(Do you know how many ways you can feel yourself exploding?
That's what living is like—you inflate, deflate, you ask and answer at
the same time. Everything happens at the same time. That's something
I realized ever since I decided to keep existing.)
“I think I'm okay now,” she explains, and my eyes soften with
encouragement.
“Good,” I say softly, “that's good.” I don't know what else to say—I
want to go back to shoulder dancing, and I want to go back to
September and be a better friend. “I'm sorry you were having a hard
time. You know I'm always here if you want to talk.”
“Yeah,” she says flatly, exhaling. “I'll be fine.”
I nod and take a deep breath, just trying to let my body exist
without my mouth messing everything up. (Why do we do that thing,
let ourselves lie to ourselves and each other? We act like it makes
things simpler, but it doesn't.)
Back in the school parking lot, Meg parks next to my car, where
James is sunning on the roof. My car has an excellent roof for sunning.
Meg whistles at him and I stick out my tongue as we get out of her car
and I collect my bounty.
“Hello, dearies!” James shouts without opening his eyes.
“Time to wake up, sir!” I say, tapping my keys on the hood.
“Ah, but I was having such a lovely dream!” James hops off the car
and brushes dirt from his camo cargo shorts. He taps Rudy's hood like
it's a pet. “Who's a good boy?” he squeaks at the super-dirty backseat
window.
I'm giggling watching his theatrics when he quickly drops his
hands to his side and stiffens. I turn around; walking toward us is the
asshole himself Tim McCloud, in a corny Dave Matthews Band T-shirt
and some dumb khakis. I didn't notice his red Chevy parked nearby.
Narrowing my eyes in his direction, I make a big show out of fumbling
for my keys and ignoring him.
“Hey,” he says softly, and his car beeps.
“Hey,” James says weirdly. It startles me—I guess I didn't even
realize they knew each other.
They keep eyeing each other as Tim slips into his front seat.
“Later,” he says, slamming the door shut with a smirk.
James exhales as if he's been holding his breath underwater. I
glance at him quizzically. “What was that?”
“Huh? Nothing.”
“That guy is such a tool.” I give him two quick pecks on his cheeks.
“Bye, darling!”
He gives me a tender, sleepy smile.
James can sleep anywhere. He famously fell asleep drunk in my
bathtub once. The story goes that he was taking a shower to sober up,
fell asleep with the shower on, and all he can remember is my mom
grabbing him by the hair and pulling him up. That's the way he tells it,
that she saved his life, but my mom denies the whole thing. In general,
we always prefer to repeat the better story rather than the truth.
Maybe, eventually, the real truth won't even matter.
MADNESS AND CIVILIZATION
Therapy is especially horrible today. Mostly I'm just not in the mood to
be here, and also, I'm bored out of my mind with myself and
everything around me. Now this Susan lady is so obviously ready to be
annoying as soon as I walk in. I raise my eyebrows at her like, So? and
she returns the look with stern, pursed lips.
“So, everything's pretty much the same,” I say, folding my arms
and sinking back into the ugly couch. I've gotten so comfortable not
trying to impress her—just coasting through each session. I'm lightyears away from the heaviness of last summer.
“Morgan,” she says, tilting her head all serious, “do you realize
you've been coming here for five months now?”
“Huh. I guess I hadn't thought about it. That's kind of a long time.”
I sniff; the flowery Auntie smell sticks to the inside of my nostrils.
“It is, quite a bit of time.”
I nod and bite at the inside of my cheek. I don't have anything to
say.
“Do you think these sessions have been helping?”
I unfold my arm and futz with the hem of my skirt. For some
reason, I keep eyeing the spine of a book called Madness and
Civilization, glowering at me from the center of her bookshelves.
“Um, yeah I guess.” I regret that my voice gets high; she'll notice
I'm lying. That much I know from Law & Order.
“I mean I guess the Prozac is working. It's easier to get up and go
to school and hang out with people and all that stuff.”
“You don't sound too convinced.”
“No, no I definitely feel better. It's just, I still don't know what the
point is.”
“The point of what?”
“The point of anything. I just feel empty.” I hate how it comes out.
“Not to be dramatic.”
“Well, I can tell you that you aren't alone in that. That's something
most people have asked themselves at some point or another.”
“Yeah, I know, I know I'm not, like, special.”
“That's not what I mean. It's important to ask these questions. It
helps us learn more about ourselves and challenge ourselves to live our
lives to the fullest, and on the most righteous path.”
(And yet: Madness and Civilization.)
“But what do I do? I feel I'm always on some kind of path—maybe
not a righteous path but like, self-discovery. I just feel like I'm
searching and waiting but not doing anything. Like, I'm passionate,
but it all just stays right here, in my chest.” I press my fingers to my
sternum, hard, focusing all my pain and frustration right there.
Susan manages a pitying nod, and I ramble through the silence. “I
don't know, I feel like there's some purpose I should be focusing on.
But other than my writing, I don't know what I care about. All I know
is what I'm told to care about. I just go with the flow because I'm afraid
of really being myself.”
A little tear collects, and I wipe my eyes before it drops, but Susan
sees me. I'm pretty sure I've never articulated these words in quite this
way. They scare me.
She makes me stew for a minute. Damn Susan.
“And what would be so scary about being yourself?”
“Uh, judgement, I guess. My depression. I can't be regular without
taking pills. Last summer—that was the real me,” I boom, declaring it
for Susan and for myself. “No one can deal with that person. I can't
even deal with that person.”
Susan takes a deep breath and fine—I give in and take a tissue. I'm
crying openly in therapy and I hope everyone's happy.
Susan leans in, inching to the edge of her chair and speaking
softly, like she's my first-grade teacher and I just skinned my knee.
“That's not you.”
I blow my nose. It is a honk, the opposite of dainty. Another thing
I hate about myself: I am an extremely ugly crier.
“That's not you,” she says again.
“I know.” I slump and roll my eyes. “I know it's not.”
“Say it, come on.”
Though I'm obviously mortified at the corny after-school special
that is my life, I guess this is who I am now. I accept the role and say
my line.
“That's not the real me.”
“You are not your depression.”
“I am not my depression.”
Ugh, I half-expect Dr. Phil's studio audience to golf-clap at my
vulnerability. I hate myself right now.
“Morgan, before you go,” I follow her eyes to the clock—somehow,
we're over time. “I want to ask that in the next week you consider the
possibility that you have touched lives in ways you may not realize.
Think about your impact. The ways you can use that creativity and
passion to express yourself, instead of hiding yourself. Just as an
exercise. Think about it.”
OMG so corny. I say, “Okay,” and stare at the door, but she keeps
talking.
“And also,” she says, standing up and revealing a million wrinkles
in her linen potato-bag dress, “if you feel you haven't made a
difference, then make a difference. No one is saying you can't.”
Every time I hear things like this—hopeful things, encouraging
things—that evil part in my brain reminds me that stuff like that only
applies to other people.
In the lobby, Framed Portrait of Bon Jovi has been replaced with
Framed and Signed Headshot of Mel Gibson. That really pisses me off.
NO ROM-COMS
On Saturday, after a deeply awkward but adorable attempt at bonding
with my dad over coffee, I meet Sean Santos-Orenstein at the foothills
of Prospect Park's winding dirt paths and orange groves, our closest
approximation to “real” nature, to the outside world. He's standing on
a blanket under a big oak tree with two paper Stater Bros. bags at his
feet. Even with his black Ray-Bans on I can tell he's google-eyed as he
grins, and right now, all of a sudden, I realize exactly how cute he is.
Still, I haven't thought about whether this is a date date or not,
and secretly, though I have no business feeling this way (as beggars
must be beggars), I hope it isn't. Since Jake Walker, I can't really care
about boys. They're clearly not the solution to any of my existential
crises, and also, they're not that great. (Life is really not the way
anything in NYLON magazine says. Or at least mine isn't, and maybe
that's why I'm not in NYLON magazine.)
If it's boring or weird, I'll just go home. If (when) it's embarrassing
and awkward, I'll flee the scene like I usually do and drive around
crying to Rudy and Morrissey.
“Heyyy,” he calls as I make my way over to the tree.
“Hiii.” I wave, and he gets to work pulling stuff out of the grocery
bags.
“Wow, this is a whole spread.” I eye the bags of grapes and chips,
the little thing of salsa.
“I mean, I thought I might as well go all out.” He grins and lands
his long body on the blanket, which, actually, is more of a throw. “Glad
you could come.”
“Me too,” I unfortunately squeak. Plopping down, static hits the
backs of my thighs. (How is it December and almost 80 degrees?
Shorts are the least interesting article of clothing, and they're
extremely hard to work with. I hate it here.)
“Sooo…” I fidget hesitantly. “What's up? I mean, how are you? I
mean, I don't know anything about you.”
He laughs easily and pops a grape into his mouth, smirking at me.
“You're hilarious.” He smacks on a grape. “Hm, about me…” He
pauses, and I patiently stretch my legs in front of me and lean back on
my palms.
(For posterity, and because I'm pretty proud of getting creative
with khaki shorts that are a little too big for me, the whole outfit is: a
red vinyl belt, bright red lips, espadrille sandals, a white oxford shirt
pushed up at the arms, and a pin of a Gustav Klimt painting. It's very
class-mom-on-field-trip-day. Or Black Diane Keaton on vacation in
Italy.)
(By the way, this is an example of a look my mom goes crazy over.
I think she wishes I was Black Diane Keaton every day, shopping the
racks of Ann Taylor Loft with her. “You can't beat a nice, crisp white
button down!” That's one thing my mom is passionate about.)
“Well,” he finally says, “I don't play any instruments and I'm in a
band with no name.”
We both crack up and he jabs me softly in the arm. “Shut up! What
about you?”
“Well, personally I think Overdressed and Mouthful is a perfect
name.”
“No, for real,” Sean laughs and smirks sharply. “Tell me about who
you are. I want to get to know you.”
He's wearing a Hawaiian shirt and long tight cutoffs, printed
socks, and simple low Adidas. Dad-on-field-trip-day-but-dad-is-inTV-on-the-Radio. He scratches at patchy sideburn stubble. I believe I
am being seduced.
I consider lying, flirting. But whatever.
“Hm. Who am I. Well I like reading books, writing. Music,
obviously. I like the color green and apples and thrifting and movies…”
This is the part where I usually stop talking, but today I disrupt my
own peace.
“I mean, I'm kind of a mess, I know it. So many things are wrong
with me. But there's so much I want to do and be; I have a feeling I
could be this grand, passionate hero.”
I don't know why I quote myself, but I do. I just want to say it out
loud, almost as a joke.
“Wow,” Sean whispers.
“Except,” I sigh, “I'm trapped, and I don't know what I believe or
where I'm going.” I pull some grapes from their stem with a selfdeprecating chuckle. “Sorry, that got real dark, didn't mean to be a
downer!”
He laughs, but not at me—it doesn't make me feel stupid or weird.
“You really hate small talk, don't you?” He pretends to elbow me.
“You asked.” I shrug with a pout, blushing under my black girl.
Sean quickly looks down, drags his hand across his forehead and
through his puffy hair. I notice his dimples. He pulls off his shades; his
eyes do their happy glistening.
“No…I don't think you're a mess,” he mumbles, squinting. “And I
don't think you're a downer. I think you're smart. And what you just
said was actually really beautiful.”
I smile and try not to ruin anything because I don't know how I'm
supposed to be. “Well, thanks.” I reach to surreptitiously pick a blade
of grass.
“Seriously,” he basically marvels. “Everything you say is like a little
poem, it's amazing.”
I snort shyly. “Maybe you're just easy to talk to.”
He grins and shrugs proudly. He's good at saying a lot without
words. He's sort of intense—but it's working for me, there's instant
intimacy. I feel like I've known him for years. I bend my head back
over my shoulders and look up at the sky, its shapeless clouds.
“So, tell me a story about you,” I insist.
“Hmm…” He tilts his head to join me in cloud-gazing, folding his
knees up to his chest and drumming them absently with his fingers. “I
think about living in Italy one day. Last summer I tried to teach myself
Italian. You know, with Rosetta Stone? I pretended to understand all
these Italian poems—I thought I'd pick it up by osmosis, eventually.
Anyway, I gave up after two weeks.”
He throws a grape into the air and tries to catch it in his mouth. He
doesn't.
“That sounds awesome! I've never been to Europe.”
“Sparkling cider?” He extends the Nalgene to me and I prop myself
up on my elbow.
“Ooh, sure!” It's lukewarm and sweet, but a charming touch. (Who
thinks of that?)
“Maybe not live there. There probably aren't too many other Black
Jews in Italy.”
I swallow, snorting with surprise. “You'll be one of a kind, then,” I
try.
“Oh, I already feel that, believe me I do.”
I take another drink and pass it back. “So, what's it like? Or, I
mean, I don't know much about Judaism.”
He offers me a chip. I wave it away, listening intently.
“Well, I'm not that religious actually. We celebrate High Holy
Days, Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur. Passover is pretty dope. But that's
pretty much it. I don't do anything special.”
“But what do you believe?” My voice cracks; I cough nervously to
cover it. “Or, I guess, what do you have to do to be saved from hellfire
or whatever? You pray?”
(People are always telling me to pray about my sins, saying they'll
pray for my sins, talking to me about damnation.)
“Yeah, we pray. I pray sometimes but not, like, frequently. I
believe in rituals and family and all that stuff, being a good person,
basically. Jews don't really believe in hell.”
“Oh, whoa.” My eyebrows furrow tightly as my face tenses into a
pucker. It's like my mind can't wrap itself around the idea of a life not
ending in eternal flame. “Wow,” I absently repeat, like I'm trying to
memorize the information.
“Oh!” he hops up from the blanket and I'm stirred from my mind's
somersaults.
“By the way,” he announces, rifling around in the shopping bags
excitedly. “In the spirit of our new friendship, at the suggestion of one
David Santos, I made you a mix.” He tosses me a jewel case.
“That's so nice! I wish I had burned you one.” I adjust my eyes to
his handwriting; I think the mix is titled “Anthems of a SeventeenYear-Old Girl.” I think my lips and my whole body might cover him
any second, I can't fathom how perfect it is.
“Ah, yes! A track listing—you really are different from David.”
He grins as I scan the picks—there's some Atlas Sound and Broken
Social Scene, but also some stuff I've never heard of, like the Blood
Brothers, and some old-school Marvin Gaye and Nina Simone. Weird,
but super good.
“Thanks so much, dude.”
“For sure. My pleasure.” He exhales and lays his body like a paper
doll on the blanket, and I lay back next to him. “That's better. So, let's
talk resolutions.”
“Yes. How's yours going?”
“Uh, it's not? I don't know, I was super fired up last week, but the
truth is I have no plan. It's like I'm trapped in this tiny world of my
brain and I can't get out. That's why David and I spend so much time
goofing off and we don't even have a band name.”
“Aw,” I croon. “Or look at it this way—you have many band names.
Infinite possibilities!” I chuckle half-heartedly and run a hand through
the grass. “I know what you mean, though, about being trapped in
your own brain, thinking too much.”
“It sucks,” he sighs, looking up at the periwinkle sky. “And it's not
just that. I'm going to college next fall—wherever I go—but I just don't
want to wait that long to get started.”
“On what? You mean studying, or working?”
“No—just living. Sorry I'm not making sense. Erase that.” He swats
at his forehead.
“Crazy talk.”
“No! That completely makes sense. I feel that way too, for sure—
like I want to just grow into myself already, to know who that person is
and what she's all about.” (I always talk so much with my hands.
That's a thing I know about myself.) “I just don't have the freedom to
do that right now. So, yeah, trapped.”
He hums a little as he sighs. He smells like salt and dryer sheets.
He turns his face to mine, but clumsily. (That's a hundred percent not
this movie.) “Well, what is it that you're passionate about?”
“Um, writing, I guess.” Something flies into my mouth. Of course, I
spit it out loudly, sticking my fingers up to my lips. Sean snickers.
“Also—” A fly buzzes around me and I try to dodge it, cursing. (I'm
very good at dates.)
Sean is cracking up now and I laugh too, sitting up and collecting
myself.
“Also, the truth.”
“Ah, the truth. That old rascal.”
“Man, you're so lucky you go to public school. Vista is an alternate
universe. We're completely cut off from reality.”
For a minute I think I'm getting chilly and rub my arms, but the
weather hasn't changed.
“I have a cousin that goes there,” he offers. “She's a freshman.
Dude, she really is in her own world. I feel like all she does is go to
youth group. It's dope that she's so passionate, but sometimes when I
hear her talk I worry that she's passionate about the wrong thing. You
know what I mean?”
“God, totally. It's kinda scary. Like, why am I the freak, just
because I'm not really sure what happens when we die?”
“Well, first of all, we become dogs, obviously!”
I can't help it—I get the giggles, and Sean, trying to keep a straight
face, eventually erupts in laughter too. I laugh so hard my sides start
aching—about the joke, but also about everything. It's weird to feel so
close to someone so fast, like we just met and decided we'd be besties.
“But, all right, second.” He elbows warmly. “Do you really think
you're going to hell?”
“I…I don't know.” I drop my head. “I'm not perfect.”
“Well, you know, no one—”
“No one's perfect, I know, I know.”
“No, I was gonna say, no one cool goes to heaven. You can't do
anything fun there.”
“Right! So, hell, I guess.”
“To hell!” he shouts, wielding an imaginary goblet.
“To hell.” I jut my raised fist into the bright sweet center of every
orange in California. “To the church of raising hell!”
“Oh, shit!” Sean gasps wildly, and I smile, prouder of myself than
anyone in their right mind would be, like I just gave birth to an icon.
“I know. That is an incredible fucking band name and you should
definitely use it and give me credit, obviously.”
MANIC PANIC
I'd forgotten my ringtone was “Kool Thing” by Sonic Youth. Man, I
love that song.
“Is that your phone?” We're standing by a tree examining our
freshly picked fruits for bugs. Sean darts over to feel around the
blanket. “Catch.”
(I obviously don't, but whatever.)
It's Meg calling, and I think about not answering, but I check
myself. “Yo dude.”
I can barely understand her. She's doing that kind of breathless
crying, choking out tears and blubbering. Her voice is erratic and wild
and it's terrifying.
“Ugh…I don't know…Laura…it's not fair…I wasn't…I don't know
what to do.”
“Meg, slow down, calm down.” I widen my eyes and shrug at
Sean's look of earnest concern. I have no idea what's going on.
Meg takes a deep inhale and whimpers.
“Are you hurt?” I ask, but before she can answer, I say, “Where are
you?” because she definitely needs me right now.
“My dad's. Can you come over?”
“Sure, yeah. I'm on my way. Take deep breaths and stay put.”
This seems serious. I know about serious. I just didn't have anyone
to call in my moment, and I desperately wish I had.
I hang up the phone, shaking my head wildly, and look longingly at
Sean. “I'm so sorry. That was my best friend, I don't know what's
wrong…” I start gathering my stuff, collecting myself. “Something's
going on, I was having so much fun, but—”
“Say no more. I'll drive.”
—
Sean Santos-Orenstein has the most normal car in the world, a Camry
or something, and it's eerily clean. It's kind of sweet—I can't help
sneaking smirks at him as I navigate to Meg's dad's. When we turn
onto the rural street, it's already darkening, and Meg's in the driveway
throwing a bunch of stuff into the trunk of her car, all the doors open
and Metallica playing from the stereo.
“Oh no,” I say as Sean parks across the street.
He grimaces, “Is that Metallica?”
“Meg listening to Metallica is a Bad Sign, Sean. She lets Metallica
speak on behalf of all of her aggression.” I close my eyes and inhale as
I open the car door.
“Uh,” he softly lays a hand on my knee then quickly pulls it back,
“I'll just wait right here. You go take care of your girl. Call me if you
need anything?”
“Thanks.” I squeeze his shoulder and nod with a smile as I get out
of the car.
Speed-walking across the street, I foolishly look both ways even
though it's completely deserted. In front of a corner house are two
broken tricycles and, inexplicably, a covered wagon. It's Klan country
out here, for sure. As much as I've been raised to love and desire
whiteness, I can't get down with “hick” culture, even ironically. People
just love forgiving racism because they like music or values or
whatever.
Meg turns around to me, holding a box of Manic Panic hair dye,
looking absolutely crazed.
“Dude!” I rush at her. “Stop. Wait, what is going on? Breathe.
Actually, I'm gonna breathe too, I don't even know why.” I laugh
because what is even going on.
Meg does one of those cry-hiccups, her shoulders heaving up and
down. She puts the hair dye in her car and turns it off. Without the
Metallica, the night is quiet and still—only crickets sing in the air.
“Can I have a cigarette?” Meg finally says, and shivers a little as
she shakes her head. “Effing bullshit.”
She doesn't smoke, but it wasn't a question. “Here. Did something
happen?”
She only sighs in response, and I light our cigarettes.
“Start at the beginning,” I say, steering us to the curb. We squat
down and fold over into our laps, tip our heads into each other. We
just sit and smoke and stay quiet.
“I hate my parents,” Meg groans after a while, kicking her pointytoe Target flats at the pavement.
I scrunch my face sympathetically.
“So, apparently I'm obligated to go to Bible college. My parents
won't pay for it otherwise.” I gasp as she goes on. “All their fighting
over the years, and the one thing they definitely agree on is making my
life a nightmare.”
I shake my head and suck my teeth. With sudden choreography,
Meg stands up from the curb, clasping her hands together, announces,
“I have to tell you something,” and sits back down on the curb next to
me, her face a landscape of worry.
“You know how you said I was all intense about the PSATs and
stuff?”
“Meg, I didn't mean—”
“No, listen…I was taking Adderall. Like, ‘recreationally' or however
they say it.” She makes air quotes, nervously bobbing her head.
“Oh,” I breathe, befuddled. “Plot twist.”
“I know. It was actually my prescription, from the time I went to
the hospital before. I actually did see a shrink then, just once, and he
gave me a prescription. I went off it because it made me feel all coked
out. But then I started taking it to study….”
“Dang. Jesus, Meg,” I exhale, feeling lost. “You mean…a lot? Like
that episode of Saved by the Bell with Jessie and the caffeine pills?”
“Kind of a lot, yeah,” she admits with a bowed head. “But that's
over. I have one left and I'm saving it for babysitting.”
“Are you sure you're all right?”
“Yes, I suppose,” she sighs. “I was feeling so…out of control…you
know?” she squeaks, turning to me. I put my arm around her
shoulders and squeeze a hug. “I, like, made a little schedule, like one of
Kelly Kline's anal spreadsheets. I thought if I studied for this many
more hours, I could raise my GPA this many percentage points.
Whatever, it was stupid.”
“Hey.” I turn to look her in the eye. “It wasn't stupid. You're not
stupid. Everyone gets overwhelmed like that sometimes.”
I have good advice—I should listen to it.
“Yeah. That's true.” She smiles sadly. “But it doesn't matter,
because it's not like I'm applying to any big colleges. They said I'm
obligated to Bible college for my first year. If I don't like it, tough shit,
and I can transfer when I can pay my own way.”
“Jeez. That's really harsh.”
“That's what she said tonight, tough shit,” she mocks her stepmom
in a bitchy voice. “I just, like, lost it. I said Fuck you. I never, ever say
Fuck you.”
“Oh, babe, I'm so sorry,” I commiserate, but I have to smile
imagining it, Meg slurring, “Fuuuuck youuu,” like that scene in SLC
Punk!
“I just think,” she goes on, looking straight ahead in the dark, “I'm
just so sick of all their rules. I just want to live my own, simple, boring
little life—is that so much to ask?”
When her tears start to fall, mine come, too. I gather her in my
arms and we drape ourselves around each other, and I can feel how
small she is, like she could snap in pieces. We have needed to do this
for so long.
As Meg pulls away, she wipes her nose with the back of her hand.
“Jeez, we have so many problems.”
I laugh because I know my lines. “Honestly, dude? It could be
worse. It's not great, for sure, but really—you'll get through it. We
will.” I squeeze her shoulder. “I should probably go check on Sean.” I
nod toward his Camry.
Meg gasps, bringing a hand to her mouth. “I totally forgot about
your non-date! I'm sorry, I wasn't even thinking when I called….”
“Oh, he's fine,” I snicker. “He's probably listening to a podcast or
something like that.” I stretch to my feet and help Meg up; we both
swat at “nature” on our butts.
“But hey,” I speak carefully, “I really think you should go talk to
someone. I mean, it can't hurt, right? You probably just didn't have a
good one before.”
“Eh, I don't know if it's for me.” She says it glibly, like she's talking
about seeing a superhero movie. It stings but doesn't leave a mark.
“I know it seems that way, but I still think you should try therapy.
My lady is hella corny, I'm just warning you, but I can get you her
number if you want. I just…Maybe it will help, to work some stuff out.”
“I won't go off the rails again, I promise. Not everybody needs
therapy forever, you know,” she concludes. Her words are neat and
precise. “Sometimes people just bounce back from things and move
on.”
I open my mouth but close it. My body absorbs the words like a
sponge.
“No offense or anything.”
“Oh, yeah.” I start in Sean's direction, muttering, “Yeah, I know, I
know. Yeah. No big deal.”
I need to switch from one mask to another. I need a version of
myself that feels different.
“Oh, and of course, her name is Susan.” I roll my eyes at Meg with
a broad, self-deprecating smile.
“Obviously.” She grins. “Such a name for a therapist. I think the
one I had when I was a kid was named Martha.”
I cackle and knock on Sean's window. I can make out the shape of
him leaned back in the front seat, earbuds in and fingers laced over his
chest. Meg and I titter as he startles and hurriedly gets out of the car.
“Hi, hey.” He reaches out his hand to Meg. “I'm Sean.”
“Meg, Sean. Sean, my BFF, Meg.” I grin. They shake hands and
Meg cracks up loudly at the formality.
“Everything okay? How we doing?” Sean sidles over and lightly
taps my back. I look up at him, and he smiles back like Meg's not even
there. It's amazing. I feel safe.
I squeeze Meg's hand. “What are you gonna do?”
“Oh, I'm good. I'm gonna go to my mom's for the night.”
“Word. Are you sure? After we get my car, I can meet you
somewhere?”
“David just texted that he's at Coco's,” Sean offers, a temptress,
climbing back into the front seat.
“Aw, thanks, no, you guys go. Tell darling David Santos I love him.
Thank you so much for coming.” She looks at me. “I promise, I'm
gonna get out of this dumb city before I go crazy.”
I press my hands into my best friend's shoulders and look her in
the eye.
“Congratulations. One day this will all just be an anecdote.”
CORRESPONDENCE BOTH DIGITAL AND ORIGAMIED
From: Sean.something42@gmail.com
To: davidneedsahaircut@yahoo.com,
daria_but_black@gmail.com
Subject: Bam!
Here's the notes I typed up from our “meeting” the other night at Coco's. Good stuff.
Mediocre pie. Morgan, I know you were just joking but I seriously think you should
do the [REDACTED] thing. Will you send the names of the books you mentioned?
David, you talk to Matty? He is psyched about the name HOW TO RAISE HELL.
You're right, we should just commit.
here's to punk and protest,
s
Hey,
How are you? Like, for real? Saturday night was really scary, and not
just seeing you that way but the fact that I had no idea. I feel
bad that you didn't think you could talk to me about how much
you were struggling. Maybe I can't even talk. I've definitely
made my own bad choices, probably as recently as this morning.
I've been through some really dark and scary stuff.
Ugh, I just wish everything could be simple for us. I wish every day
were just picking oranges in Prospect and giggling about crazy
recipes for tacos. Dancing to Le Tigre. Making “margaritas” with
Squirt and tequila.
If nothing else, can we just pinky promise to look out for each other,
no matter what?
Sean said this cute thing in the car after we left your dad's, about
friendship. He said, “Sometimes friends are just people who aren't
weirded out by looking at you.” I don't know, I thought it was
kinda deep. Not to be mooshy, but, you know. Anyway, Gov is
almost over.
loveeeeee you loverrrr
hello my lover!
I'm better, yeah. I'm staying at my mom's and we had several long family
“discussions” about my many “issues.” They're making me go to church every
week now, and babysit every Sunday too, and I'm getting a therapist. You
were right. I guess that's all I wanted to say about that.
I'm not even grounded, probably because I only ever really end up at your
house, anyway.
I'm looking forward to having a shrink actually. Stuff is hard, man. In
conclusion, I'm not gonna become a druggie. And now Bible college has been
“opened back up for discussion.”
Thanks for coming and watching me freak out. It really did help. I think
I didn't even realize how out of control I was. Mostly it's just embarrassing
that I was so crazed about the PSATs. Everyone knows no one looks at those.
Because they're PRACTICE. So dumb.
Sean is…cute! Is that a thing now? What about David? It kinda works,
though.
I have a new crush, but I'll save it for the Notebook, because if I don't,
James will FREAK OUT.
What are you doing Friday? We should watch movies after school and
paint our nails, or some dumb girlie stuff like that.
love ME(g)
<3 (still so bad at drawing hearts)
THE BLACK NOTEBOOK
The plan
Wake up early, even before [REDACTED]—ridiculously early, like
5. So nervous-excited, I probably won't sleep, anyway. COFFEE.
Prep. Finally figured out how to get into [REDACTED] before
[REDACTED]. During any given season, some sports team or
another wakes up at the butt crack of dawn for training—in my
opinion, a small price to pay for small-town popularity and
school-wide dominance. I'll just sneak in through [REDACTED]—
enduring the [REDACTED] smell will be my penance. Set up
across from [REDACTED]. Wait. No one will know anything
about the [REDACTED] or how they actually started, because not
even I did, and I'm black (surprise!). They'll all be scratching
their heads at the [REDACTED]. It's kind of like History Day,
when all through the school the seniors have booths where they
act out historical moments—Nazi Germany, Alabama in the 50s,
Women Suf ragettes. But this time we don't have to all
awkwardly pretend the black kids aren't there.
Supplies
Two LARGE trays (pile high!); Hundred-pack of Smart ‘N Final
paper plates; Fancy-seeming plastic forks leftover from an
ancient Thanksgiving; Tongs; An emptied grape jelly jar; Scotch
tape; Posterboard signs; old, rickety card table, scooped from the
garage and likely not important.
Playlist
Couldn't sleep so I just made this (Morgan—in your tote bag!). It
is excellent. Starts with Marvin Gaye's “What's Goin' On,” and
goes right into “I'm So Bored With the USA.” How good is that
transition!
CAUSING A SCENE
I wash my hair. I don't flat-iron it. It's Chapel Wednesday, and I'm
ready to raise hell.
Fresh out of the shower, looking in the bathroom mirror at the
soggy carpet on my head, I'm filled with melancholic regret. How can
it be that this is the first time I've done this? Do I really not know how
to wear my hair regular, naturally?
I don't even let myself ponder the metaphor. I find a comb of
Malcolm's and plow through the hair as it dries. If it doesn't stand up
in all the right places, no one will know the difference. Besides, the
actual execution of the hair is way less important than the outfit.
The outfit is and must be: black skinny jeans, black turtleneck,
black boots. No compromises. I don't have a leather jacket, so I put all
the concert pins I can find on my jean jacket and flip up the collar for a
little added rebellion. This part is less for the optics—(it doesn't take
much to stand out at school)—and more for me. For attitude.
After I get dressed and get my eyeliner just right, I go back
downstairs to the kitchen. Damnit—I'm too late. My mom's already
here in her bathrobe, an elbow propped on the counter, coffee mug in
hand, basically waiting to chew me out. When we lock eyes, she clears
her throat and slowly scans the disaster in the kitchen, making A Face.
She doesn't have to do anything more than that. I get it. She might as
well save her breath.
“I knowww,” I whine. “I'm sorry, I was gonna clean up!”
I start rushing to secure tin foil on trays and throw pans in the
dishwasher. She laughs, satisfied that she's gotten to me. (It's like she
delights in rubbing her cheery morning disposition in my grumpy
face.)
“Is this a class project or something?”
“Uh,” I grimace. “Or something?”
“All right.” She raises her eyebrows and waves in surrender. “As
long as you kids clean up after yourselves, I'm not gonna get into your
business.”
(In my particularly relevant experience, this means, I will almost
certainly get into your business in the next four minutes. Besides me,
my mom is the least subtle person I know. She's a backseat driver, a
backseat cook, a backseat launder, a backseat makeup artist—and all
while chanting, “I'm gonna stay out of your business.”)
“Your hair is cute like that,” she winks before turning toward the
stairs. “Let me know if you want me to show you some natural styles.”
“Oh! Cool. Thanks, Mom.” I smile, off guard. (My mom has a
weave and it was my understanding that weaves, not afros, were the
current Black Mom Political Stance.) “You had an afro?”
“Hell yeah, everybody did. Your dad really did have the best one.”
She throws her head back at the thought of it, cackling. “Have a good
day, wonderful daughter.”
—
I completely have the jitters driving to school. I take my time at every
single stop instead of barreling through the intersections Californiastyle. I know I should be doing this. This is what the end-of-year
resolution is all about. It's hilarious, and I don't really have anything to
lose. If I do, I clearly don't know what it is. Six months trying to get
unstuck, and all I do is keep adding layers and layers to the impossible
math equation of myself. It's like in A Beautiful Mind, when he steps
back and is like OMG, I am nonsense.
I sneak in through the locker rooms as planned. I'm carrying
pancakes under one arm and the card table under my other, so I don't
get to hold my nose as I scurry through the B.O. and Axe-scented
corridor. I'm a little shocked how easy it is for me to make it into the
main hallway undetected and set up camp. The school is totally dead,
lit only by the early morning light, misty and gray—for some reason,
the quiet fills me with excitement.
I station myself just across from the doors to the gym, where
everyone will be funneling in first thing for chapel. (Today's message is
supposed to be about obedience—they're gearing us up for the annual
retelling of “the true story of Christmas.”)
My posterboards are totally ridiculous, I know, but I love them.
One says: FREE BREAKFAST. POWER TO THE PEOPLE. Then I veer
off from the Panthers theme and enter “Morgan at Vista Christian in
2008.” The other posterboards say, in bubble letters taught to me by
Kelly Kline in 4th grade: TOUCH MY HAIR: $1 and ASK A BLACK
GIRL: $5. And then, just for good measure, I have one other poster
with printed-out pictures of the Black Panthers—I just need everyone
to know how incredible their outfits were.
I hang up the signs behind me with tape and I set up my card table
and all the pancakes (so many pancakes); I fluff my hair (it feels so
weird like this!) and leave out the Smucker's jar for cash. Then I wait. I
eat a pancake. I think about going to make a cup of coffee in the
teacher's lounge, but it's not a day for that kind of conspicuousness. I
start to get nervous and consider scrapping the whole idea. I feel my
heart pounding even in my ears. But I don't expect anything too
dramatic, and at least I'm doing something educational. This is going
to be hilarious. Right?
—
It's a complete mob scene by the time the ten-minute bell rings. Some
of the jocks and popular girls are at the back of the crowd making fun
and taking pictures with their phones, but some of them are also
eating pancakes, and most kids are actually listening to me as I'm
telling them about the Panthers' Free Breakfast program. The
yearbook photographer starts to rush up to me with his camera around
his neck, but I give him a stern look in the eyes and say, “No. We
cannot do a story about this.”
(I don't know what I'm doing, if this is technically a protest or
some kind of performance art or what, but either way I know it
shouldn't be documented in a school publication. I've slipped in some
risky stuff before, much to the chagrin of our advisor, but politics is
completely off-limits—even in an election year, and even with a black
president.)
After a fake stoner asked, “Why do black people like chicken so
much?” I ditched the ASK A BLACK GIRL service, but I've already
made sixteen bucks or so on hair touches. I should really charge for
this all the time. (If I had a dollar for every time a white person has
touched my hair without permission, I could buy a two-day pass to
Coachella.)
Jordan comes up for a pancake, and he can't resist saying, “You're
so weird,” as he stuffs a bite into his mouth. Then, chewing, he says,
“This is kind of tight, though.”
When I spot my crew coming toward the gym, I stick out my
tongue at them. Meg and James speed-walk over, their faces bright
with giddiness, and James is even applauding.
“So, explain!” he commands. He and Meg are both wearing white
T-shirts, black Converses, and black jeans. Meg's shirt has a dinosaur
on it.
“Welcome to the Black Panther Party free breakfast program. For a
dollar, you may also touch my hair.”
“It looks amazing,” Meg and James chime almost in unison.
“Oh my gosh!” Other Black Girl Stacy Johnson pushes her way in,
looking totally confused. “You are so crazy, Morgan! Did you just come
up with this?”
“No, it's a real thing. Or it was a real thing, when the Panthers
were still around. Before most of them got killed. They had breakfasts,
and ran schools and community education programs, too! Isn't it
weird that no one talks about that?”
“Yeah, I guess, um, if it's true…Uh, are you guys going to chapel,
though?”
“What?” I'm barely listening to her, distracted keeping an eye on
the growing crowd, and also, I sort of can't believe I just revealed an
epic piece of black history and she is asking me about chapel, of all
things. Poor Stacy. She can't be saved.
Kelly Kline disbands a group of JV cheerleaders whispering and
mocking me on their way to the auditorium. They roll their eyes as she
shoves them and scans the setup, impressed and Class Presidential.
She drops a five into the Smucker's jar.
“Keep the change.” She laughs. I nod in authorization. She runs
her finger through my kinks and her eyes widen. “It's really incredible!
How cool!”
The group around us is getting unwieldly and loud. I'm almost out
of pancakes, but people just love spectacle. Any excuse to break up our
routine for even a minute.
Meg grabs me by the hand and heads for my spot behind the table.
“Let me help.”
James uses his theater voice to direct the crowd: “Please form a
line, ladies and gentlemen. No peace, no justice; no justice, no peace.
Thank you from the management.”
I feel so close to my friends right now. They're looking at me for
the first time, a new version of me, and they're not even flinching.
(I'm surprised this is actually happening, that some uptight faculty
member hasn't already pushed through to shut me down. This is not
the sort of chaos I imagined would spring from my plan. I guess I
didn't know what to imagine.)
If nothing else, a group of nerdy freshmen are totally getting
schooled, and it's awesome. One of them croaks, “But I thought the
Black Panthers were a terrorist group,” and I'm psyched to launch into
a lecture about everything I've learned. I explain that they were the
ones being terrorized, by the police, and their jaws drop so wide I can
see their braces. I get louder, even though the kids from my class are
pretending not to be listening.
“They protected their people and their neighborhoods! They stood
up for themselves and their rights! They wanted revolution because
they were tired of getting so much less than anyone else, of being
beaten and shot by the cops who were supposed to be protecting them.
That's why they had education programs and organized their
communities. They had to protect themselves, help each other, right?
Does that sound like terrorism?”
I've got a little group of dedicated listeners—quiet kids from a
bunch of different grades—nodding their heads and raising their
eyebrows at all of my points. I'm energized by the attention, by my
own command over the crowd. I can't believe how good it feels to be
heard instead of gawked at.
One of my pupils, a blond girl even shorter than me and wearing a
yellow polo shirt, asks, “But they were violent, right? I understand
self-protection but…isn't it always wrong to fight violence with
violence? What about turning the other cheek?”
“Yeah, I thought you were ‘little miss pacifist.' Now that
communist Barack Osama wins, you go all Malcolm X?”
I'd know that new voice anywhere—of freaking course Tim would
appear with his irritating air quotes.
“You are absolutely right,” I respond as calmly and civilly as I can.
This wretched asshole. “And listen, nonviolence is incredibly noble
and amazing. But—”
“Absolutely not!” A commotion. Kids scatter. Mr. K runs
screaming down the hall, or jogs, whatever it is he can manage.
Mr. Howard waddles behind him, trying to look serious, but I can tell
he's excited by the disturbance.
“Everyone to the gym for chapel, immediately!”
Mr. K waves his arms around as if he's parting the Red Sea.
Everyone scurries, my friends and a few other nosy folks hanging back
on alert. Mr. Howard looks practically amused, but Mr. K is livid as he
stares me down.
“Principal's.”
A FIT, A SCENE, A RIOT, A PRAYER
What I learn in the principal's office: I'm suspended pretty much until
Christmas break, which means I have to miss all the good-time movieday class periods that teachers slide into their lesson plans in
December. I basically just come to take my midterms. I also have to
miss that final, glorious, sugar-filled afternoon when all the cool girls
get in trouble for wearing sexy elf costumes and everyone exchanges
gifts and even the teachers are in a good mood. The “insubordination”
will be added to my transcript. I can kiss Columbia goodbye, the
college counselor says, because even radical liberals wouldn't want
someone with behavioral problems. I am never getting out of this
town. (“Figures—Ruth Bader Ginsburg went there,” Mr. K said to me
once. “You'll love New York City. It's a disgusting pit of immorality.”)
The principal's office: you would think this would be the one room
without a Footprints in the Sand ghost-story poster, but it certainly is
not. I can't take my eyes off it. But if I did, I would see Mr. K, the
principal, the vice principal (literally Mr. K's brother), the counselor,
and, for unexplained reasons, Jenn Hanson. (Something about her
being the class “morality monitor”? I thought that just meant she sang
in chapel.)
When I first sat down across from my judge and jury, the spirit of
Footprints in the Sand hovering over us, I was riled up, fueled by
inexplicable adrenaline, like after a punk show. I came right out and
asked them to explain exactly why I'm being suspended (not that I'd
want them to consult the code of conduct—that would be extremely
thin ice). But all they did was stutter and flounder and spit out the
words un-Christianlike and Disturbance and Inciting Speech. All of
which does not sound like serving free pancakes to the student body
and graciously supplementing the school's lacking curriculum. I truly
don't get it. Last year a group of seniors wore Halloween costumes and
started flash mobs pretty much once a week.
—
Now, back at my car, reality is a bitch. The weight of my sentence is
sinking in, and it's like all the blood leaves my body. Like part of me
just drains away.
Fuck.
I feel red-hot and tiny. The familiar slump descends upon my
shoulders, and all my worst critics take the stage in my head. How
could you be so reckless? What were you thinking? What is the point?
Who do you think you are?
I rip up my posterboards and shove them into Rudy's backseat. I'm
wrecked with fears and complaints and worst-case-scenarios. Part of
me thinks I'll never come back here, and the other, more terrified part
knows I will.
I'm so angry and harried that I don't see Mr. Howard come up next
to me, cartoon weasel with a heart of gold.
“Oh, hi.” I'm out of breath, my eyes still misty and puffy.
“Morgan, I'm so sorry—”
“I know, it's okay. I'm sorry, too. I guess it was a bad idea.”
“I just wanted to say it's bullcrap. Completely. But it's not their
fault. Honestly, I think you're probably right, you're probably smarter
than them, but this is where we live. The black thing is just not
familiar to these humble idiots,” he says dryly, sardonically. His mouth
twists into a Cheshire cat smirk. “Don't pay too much attention to
them.”
I can't help but snort a little at that one, sardonic and bitter. “I'll
try. Thanks.”
“Oh, and before I forget—”
“Right, I'll email you the midterm paper. It's due on the fifteenth,
right?”
“No, I mean, yes, but what I was going to say is, this essay…” He
holds out a rolled-up paper, and it's dog-eared, not stapled, so I know
it's mine. “This is worth something. Merry Christmas, Morgan Parker.”
As he saunters away like he has nowhere to go, I look down at the
curled printer paper and cannot believe what past-me has done. I
smirk in spite of my woe, rolling my eyes and shaking my head. It's my
poetry paper, titled “The Black Girl Speaks of Rivers: Finding Myself
in Langston Hughes and Assata Shakur.”
It is a tremendously excellent essay, even if it's completely wrong
for this place.
If I were the school, I might kick me out too. The black thing,
Mr. Howard said.
The black thing. The black elephant in the room, the black swan,
the ugly Oreo, the weird one, the difficult one, the drama queen, the
loudmouth. (“You're just unique,” everyone says, wincing.)
And I can't help it: As soon as I snuggle into the worn leather of
Rudy's front seat, I close my eyes, inhaling the thick scent of cigarettes
and brand-new yellow air-freshener tree, and I start to cry. My heart
clangs around in my chest cavity and into my stomach—I feel sick.
I am not understood. I do not belong. No one can ever fully get my
jokes or understand what I'm trying to say. Not even Susan, not even
my parents, not even my invented versions of Harriet Tubman/my
future self. They probably never have.
Everyone probably takes pity on me, rolls their eyes when I leave
the room, secretly shakes their heads about how it's too bad I'm so
weird and I'm not white.
HOLIDAY FOR HELL-RAISERS
Meg and James come by afterschool on Thursday and Friday, but I
don't want to talk to them. I don't want to talk to anyone. I'm back at
the bottom of my hole, my sadness womb, all Interpol and Elliott
Smith and no one understands me. All week I'm in a depression—the
dark, quiet, resigned kind.
My parents were seriously pissed when I first came home with the
official suspension notice, and as I sat at the dining room table and
told them everything, they still had their stern faces on, but when they
went upstairs to their room, I heard my dad muttering “fucking pricks”
and my mom shushing him. Now they're encouraging visitors, trying
to lure me downstairs with movie-selection privileges.
Everyone is powerless to my depression. I remember this. I know
this feeling. I spend days pacing the teeny square footage of my
bedroom, crying off and on, and sometimes so frustrated I start
stomping or throwing pillows. At night I feel a ball of fire rush up from
my belly to my chest and back again, like the Supreme Scream at
Knott's Berry Farm. This feeling is me. I wonder if I'll die, explode
with complete self-disgust.
—
“Your mom let me in.” Meg stands at my door with a hand on her hip
like a soccer mom, keys in her fist. I grunt.
“And I've got David and James in the car.”
“Meg.” My eyes plead with hers, thick eyeliner and a bouffant
ponytail topping her wiry form. “I seriously don't think I can be social
today. I can't handle it. I don't mean to be a dick….”
She just nods and opens her arms to beckon me, and I crash right
there. That's how it feels to be me—crashing into heavy feelings,
reaching for lifeboats. Meg is good at being quiet, and there.
“Dude, it's okay. We'll give you time.” She rubs my back while I
sniffle. “Just take your time.”
I actually smile. “Thanks. Sorry. I know I always have to cause a
scene,” I joke, wiping my eyes. “Call you after Christmas? I have to
wrap your present.”
“Sure! We can do our own exchange, our little weird family of
freaks. It'll be great.”
I grin widely. “How's everyone? How are you? Anything new?”
She shrugs. “We miss you. Everyone's actually oddly normal at the
moment. I mean, for us. Oh.” She unzips her backpack and digs
around. “Kelly asked me to give this to you,” she chirps, presenting me
with an intricate piece of origami, labeled Love you Morgs! From
Kelly Kline in those cheery purple bubble letters.
“Aw,” I giggle. “Tell her I said thanks.”
“And, of course, from David.” I accept the unlabeled CD. “And
here, James's mom's baklava. I guess his mom says to tell you ‘fight
the power.' ” I laugh loudly and roughly, surprising myself.
“Thanks so much. And thanks for coming to check on me. I really
mean it.”
“And I brought you Teen Vogue and silver nail polish because
sometimes you just need girlie things!”
She shrugs, tilts her head in a grin. I squeeze her tight.
—
My friends check in with me every day. Meg live-texts me from church
(because she's a germophobe, it's mostly about how she hates having
to hold strangers' hands), and then from babysitting the little freak (all
kinds of wacky pictures of Barbies and G.I. Joes). David calls almost
every night and lets me be awkward while he regales me with stories
about random daily encounters with a woman who looks like a Linda
or a kid who looks like the little boy from that thing we watched on
YouTube. Sean emails me song drafts or book recommendations and
articles about black writers. James comes over one day, and we watch
movies in silence, but eventually I go up to my sadness womb and he
stays downstairs cooking dinner with my parents.
But eventually everyone disappears to tend to family Christmas
stuff (and Sean's family's Hanukkah, then their half-hearted attempt
at the first few days of Kwanzaa), and eventually, miraculously, I rise
and perform my own family duties. I am trying to ride it out, to outlast
my mood. Maybe I can get stronger. Maybe next year can be easier.
A few days before Christmas, my mom is doing my hair in twostrand twists while I sit patiently cross-legged on the living room
carpet. Her iPod dock broadcasts a Christmas sermon by a gospel
preacher with a gregarious and musical voice. Coco's over here
“supervising,” aka holding a bag of Lays and chatting giddily with my
mom about hair and makeup and boring stuff like that. I see my same
old face in the mirror. I think about the “true meaning of Christmas”
the preacher recounts, the story of dozens of school plays and church
musicals, the Holy Night of happenstance and myrrh. What a wild
story, way more surreal than the Dickens story.
I think about Mary. Who just wants to have a baby for no reason,
not to mention get run out of town, scandalized? And furthermore,
what pregnant lady wants to ride a camel?
The thing about the Christian Christmas story, and all the drama
Mary had to go through, and all the stuff we kids have to go through—
midnight Mass, endless pageants, pretending we don't care about
presents or those tree-shaped cookies—is, who said we needed to be
saved? Not all “sins” sound that bad at all. I mean, murder, yeah, but—
doesn't everyone get jealous? Why does Jesus need to be involved in
our “intercourse”? Why shouldn't homosexuals just get to be
homosexuals? And how did I get here, where even curiosity is
punishable?
Don't follow rules you don't understand. I pledge allegiance to
myself and my rebellion. I get it—consequences hurt, and mine will
always hurt a little more than everyone else's. But it's worth it to stand
by my own rules. I see my hair in the mirror, its delicate kinks
glimmering with Blue Magic hair grease, and I see myself differently.
—
So even though I'm depressed as hell, on the night of our family's
Christmas party, I'm feeling in control of myself enough to just be
easy, let everything and everyone around me fall as they may. Even me
—I even leave myself alone. In the seventy-degree weather of sunny
Highland, California; my aunties cackling in the too-small kitchen; my
dad shouting at basketball on TV; my mom, tipsy and shouting for me
to get my iPod and pick out a song for the electric slide; my brother
across the room, catching my gaze for a shared eye roll; my cousins
laughing with me, not at me; the way my cousins and uncles and fakecousins love me even though there's so much about me they don't
know.
I help myself to another glass of wine, and I smile, because it feels
good to be warm.
CLICHÉ ROAD TRIP MONTAGE
15 Hours to 2009. Montage to the soundtrack of Regina Spektor's
“That Time,” where James always exclaims the line “so sweet and
juicy!” in a pitch that pierces the whole coast of the Pacific, and I laugh
so hard I cry.
Bright and early on the last horrifically lovely day of hellish and
legendary 2008, James, Meg, David, Sean, and I are in my dad's Man
Van on our way to an apartment in San Luis Obispo, a trail of cigarette
butts and empty peach ring bags in our wake, tasked with cat-sitting
for James's sister's friend. James suggested I invite Sean and David
“as arm candy,” and my parents are going out of town for the weekend,
anyway, and Meg's mom is feuding with Meg's stepmom.
After five hours and just one stop for $5 per gallon somewhere
along Pacific Coast Highway, we drop our backpacks on squeaky beds
in maritime-themed bedrooms.
It's a pretty sweet deal: when we arrive, there's a note on the
counter from James's sister's friend, with the contact information of
an of-age gentleman who's agreed to buy us “supplies”—to assure our
adult comfort. James rides with him to the liquor store in his Toyota
Tacoma.
—
9 Hours to 2009. While the rest of us decorate the back patio with
leftover Christmas tinsel and lay out on our beach towels with a few
Coronas smuggled from the Man Van, James rides with the guy, Jack
maybe, to procure liquor, and is misunderstood.
“So, what do you want me to get?” says Jack maybe (and his
Caesar cut) to James on the eleven-minute ride to the strip mall
Ralph's.
(We were like, “Just get whatever you can!”)
“Oh, you know, um, just some beer, wine…” James pushes his luck
because you miss all the shots you don't take. “And vodka. And also
whatever.”
The guy laughs, “Nice. You're gonna have a pretty good time with
those two girls.”
“What? Oh. No, we're um…It's not like that. They're just my
friends.”
“Can I give you some advice? You can't hit the ball if you don't
swing the bat. So just go for it.”
James nods, hands clasped tensely in his lap, raising his eyebrows
and probably grinding his teeth with restraint.
“Swing the bat,” goes the guy. “Swing the bat.”
8 hours to 2009. James is delighted to re-enact this conversation
for us when he returns, bearing gifts of every kind of liquor.
Each of us is holding secrets and tensions, but out in the beachy
air, things are easy. I know Southern California is my personal
purgatory, and when I see blue skies for a hundred days in a row I'm
convinced I'm going to choke on the sun, but I can't imagine not
wearing cut-off shorts on a holiday.
—
6 and a half hours to 2009. Sean, James, and I go through hell
turning on the tiny red barbecue on the apartment patio.
For dinner we make grilled swordfish, mashed potatoes, and
asparagus. David, being difficult, opts instead to eat three Hot Pockets.
We raise white wine in real glasses and toast “to the freakin' New
Year,” or rather, to the end of whatever this year was. “Good
riddance,” we shout.
—
5 hours to 2009. We get down to business taking shots.
I get drunk pretty fast because of the Prozac in my system, and
Meg gets sloppy drunk real fast because she never really drinks.
“Lover!” she shouts at me. Drunk Meg should be on YouTube.
“I can't feel my face!” she shrieks, grabbing at her cheeks after her
second vodka, and I laugh so hard I cry, filling and refilling a water
glass I keep pushing on her, glad to repay all the nights of her playing
Mom.
James turns on some random Now That's What I Call Music! and
twirls his hips in another room.
—
3 hours to 2009. David corrals us into the kitchen, the whole world
simmering with nervous anticipation of the ball drop.
“One more shot, guys!”
It's shot number three, I feel like Cuervo is in my nostrils and my
tear ducts and my pores.
“After this one,” he adds with urgency, “we're getting baptized in
the Pacific.”
I love him with those inspired, swimming-pool eyes. I almost
forgot how warm and exciting it is to be his friend.
“Amen!” shouts James, wielding the human-baby-sized handle of
alcohol.
“Should we say resolutions or something?” Sean holds up his shot
glass. I notice some muscle in his bicep and internally blush. I really
like his “Cassius Clay” T-shirt. I like him, maybe. Another high-drama
but probably-dead-end saga for the Notebook—it's thrilling.
“Nah, screw resolutions.” David Santos should become either a
motivational speaker or a camp counselor or the host of Fear Factor.
He would be good at exactly these jobs. “Let's say what we're leaving in
this garbage year. Oh!”
He dodges, a sweaty gazelle, to the iPod dock, the rest of us rapt
and expectant but impatient to drink. Usher's Confessions.
“Oh, so, a for-real baptism?” I follow up, trying to swallow the
weightiness suddenly attached to a dumb shot of tequila. “We're
washing away our sins?”
David rejoins us around the table, squeezing in between me and
Meg, and takes my hand. “Better than an exorcism,” he elbows.
It is super cute.
“So, you go first, darling,” I flirt for the hell of it.
“Okay, fine! I, uh…” he scratches the back of his neck nervously
but tries to look casual. It's like he's deciding whether or not to lie. Or
run. “So, when I met you, Morgan, art class?”
He starts laughing, but not with his regular laugh.
“I don't know why I took it! I took a bunch of those classes, too,
and guitar and karate and I was even in a book club with a bunch of
retired nurses. It was crazy….”
He trails off somberly. (What's going on with him? Why didn't I
know this?)
“So, my parents were fighting a bunch, and I was starting to think I
was the problem and I just, couldn't be in that house last summer. And
the worst part is,” he sighs, the rest of us listening intently, not sure
how to respond, “I didn't like any of it. I don't like anything. I don't…
know what I care about. I guess my sin was running away from
figuring it out.”
I wince as his pain lands like a bee sting on my own skin. To me,
David has always been so certain, so firmly sure about himself and the
world.
But maybe when we were trying to break my curse, we were on a
mission to break his, too. Get him unstuck. Find something bigger.
While I want to giggle to the Yellow Notebook about how intimate the
moment is, make everything light and surface-level, all I can focus on
is how much I care for David. How much I genuinely want only good
things for him. How close I feel to him, and how important he is to me.
Darkness isn't a bad thing. Darkness is just real.
“Anyway,”—he glances over at me with a particular look—“you
guys have really helped me with that stuff.” He drinks, contorting his
face and wagging his tongue. Sean reaches around to clap his back.
Meg extends her glass ceremoniously. “I know I'm probably
supposed to say popping pills, but that's too easy. So, popping pills,
yeah, but also: I stole something. I know I shouldn't have but…” She
shakes her head and giggles, twisting her arm around to reach into her
back pocket.
She opens her fist, and in it is Mr. K's American flag pin.
“Is that—” My eyes bug out, and James and I completely crack up.
Meg smirks. “Yep.”
“How did that even happen?”
“It was just sitting on his desk!”
James slow claps. “Amazing.”
He amps up while Meg swallows her shot, jaw clenched. “Okay, so
you know that guy Tim McCloud?”
I get a pang of shame and rage and roll my eyes. “Ugh, yes.”
“So. I…gave him a blowjob.” James downs the shot. Meg and I go
crazy gasping and screaming.
“How did that even happen!” Meg is breathless.
James removes the lime from between his teeth. “Well, I met him
in a nerdy video game chat room and…yada yada yada, I gave him a
blowjob behind the GameStop in Sunshine Village Plaza.”
Everyone freaks out, the room is roaring with laughter. I jab my
shot in the air and blurt, “Oh, so, um!”
“Okay, okay,” David yells like a kindergarten teacher, waving his
hands. He would not be a very good kindergarten teacher. “Everyone
shut up. Morgan, then Sean, then holy water!”
“So, okay, um,” I repeat, hardly containing my laughter. “I also
gave that guy a blowjob!”
I can only sip the shot because we're all laughing so hard.
Everything is ridiculous.
“In the backseat of his car. In the orange groves. After mock trial.”
I frown theatrically, finish with my lime and shrug at James. “It was
just okay, right?” He gives me a high five.
“It was a hard year,” I mutter to myself.
“I cannot believe this!” Meg shouts. “You both have to write about
it in the Yellow Notebook so we can compare and contrast.”
“Yo, who is this guy?!” Sean blurts, totally clueless.
David's laughing just because. “Yeah! Is he like the Jared Leto of
your So-Called Christian School?”
“I wish!” I cover my face, cringing and giggling. “That's the thing…
he sucks!”
“Oh my god,” Meg squeaks, darting for the iPod. “We need to
dance to ‘No Scrubs' right now!”
“Wait!” I stop her. “Sean's confessional!”
Sean takes the floor. “Okay, um…Guys, I don't know anything
about Kwanzaa. Like, I don't really know what the hell it is!”
I cackle as he brings the shot glass to his lips, and just as he's
about to drink, he chuckles, “I don't know a lot of things, man.”
He goes straight for the shot, no salt, and bites into the lime like it
was candy.
“Let's dance!”
—
1 and a half hours to 2009. We're two verses into our '90s R&B
sing-along when someone rings the doorbell. Things get sloppier and
sloppier as the New Year countdown ticks.
EXIT MUSIC FOR A FILM
New Year's Eve is unquestionably my least favorite holiday in the
history of the world. It's just so much pressure to make one night both
foreshadow the year to come and memorialize the year that's ending.
That's too much responsibility for one night, especially since most
nights are pretty terrible, anyway. I hate setting myself up for
disappointment. It's just pointless—the universe already has that
covered.
When midnight comes announcing 2009, someone's entire glass
of sparkling cider is soaking the front of my jeans, and someone else is
in my face asking if I'm okay, and I don't know who any of these
people are.
I'm drunk, but not the right kind of drunk, not the happy kind, but
the stressful confusing kind. I look up from where I'm absently wiping
my jeans with my own T-shirt, pushing an anonymous white hand full
of KFC napkins out of my line of vision, and all I see is a blurry idiotic
mess. I dart for the backdoor, pass all my friends swinging arms and
dancing in circles with that Jack guy and some other random
strangers, forming ill-advised drunken bonds.
It's all closing in and I pretend no one can see me, my tight face, all
the clanging going on in my skull.
Out on the apartment porch, I close my eyes and the party is only
in the distance, and the air is cold and crisp. I hear the ocean a few
blocks away. I taste the air and let it settle me.
The world is so much bigger than me, than all of us, than my
moods and my fuck-ups and my bad memories. It is wide and
beautiful, I remind myself. Without the noise and crowd around me, I
smile a little bit. You made it, I think. I'll be damned. Never mind the
terror of what could happen this year or even tomorrow, I am a
survivor.
—
I jump when I hear the sliding door creak open.
“Hey.” It's Meg. “You all right?”
“Yeah it's just…a lot going on in there.”
She nods in agreement and steps out on the patio and stands next
to me looking out at the bay, passes me a bottle of gas-station
champagne.
“Happy New Year!” I say obligatorily, raising the bottle before
swigging from it.
She puts her arm around me and we stay, just breathing.
“Can I tell you something and you promise not to get mad?” she
says eventually.
Jesus, this is a triggering question.
“Um, I guess,” I say quietly, passing the bottle back.
“I read your essay, from Mr. K's class. The one about the Black
Panthers and Rosa Parks?” I start to bury my face in my hands.
“Oh God, so embarrassing!” I creak as she goes on.
“He gave it to me to hand back to you while you were out, and I
promised I wouldn't read it, but I did, so I'm telling you.”
(This is a story about how my body is a brown paper bag getting
crinkled. I know that becoming a writer would require other people to
read my writing, but I thought I'd just figure that out later. Right now,
I'm too mortified of all my feelings being exposed. So. Many. Feelings.)
“No, no!” she rushes to grab my shoulders and looks me in the eye.
“You're really good, dude.”
“Really?”
“Yeah, seriously. It's like you put into words exactly what I'm
thinking! You're really deep, and you're so good at explaining the
Black History stuff in a way that's actually exciting. Like, dang.”
“Wow, thank you. I'm so shy about my writing! That's why I never
shared it with you, even though my dream is to be a writer.”
“That's so cool. I know you're gonna do it. I can definitely see it.
You have something to say.”
I chuckle a little, loosening up and unfolding my arms. It suddenly
feels so cozy out here, on a stranger's patio on the first day of the year.
“I have way more to say than you can even imagine,” I mutter with
a pf t.
“What do you mean?”
I'm quiet. I want to say everything, start the New Year without the
secrecy of last summer weighing me down. Over the past few months,
I've watched my two best friends open up about their darkest secrets,
but I still can't talk, really talk about what really happened last
summer? I keep thinking it's not a big deal, but also, what if it is?
That's the pro-con loop ping-ponging in my head right now.
“Morgan?”
I didn't even notice my eyes have welled up with fat tears. I didn't
even register Meg taking my hand. With my Kelly-green Chucks back
on firm ground, the air misty on my face, I squeeze, blink back the
tears, and inhale.
“Um. Well, you already know about my therapist, Susan…” She
snorts at the name and nods for me to go on. It's like I'm trying to
formulate the sentence in Spanish.
“I started seeing Susan because last summer, it got so bad…” I feel
myself getting choked up, but I push against it with all my might. I
don't look at my best friend, though I can hear her gasps and
whimpers of concern while I talk—I focus on the beach. “It got so bad
that I wanted to kill myself last summer. So, I have clinical depression
and anxiety disorder, and I'm on medication for it, probably, like, for
the rest of my life.”
I breathe in like I'm about to say more but realize—that's it. That's
all.
“Oh. Whoa. Are you…doing all right?”
“Yeah, yeah!” I turn to her, knock the heaviness from my
shoulders. “It's not that bad anymore. If I take my pills. I guess it's
pretty common. But I hate it. I hate that I'm like ‘ill.' ”
“Wow.” She takes a deep breath against the ocean air with a little
hmm. “Since last summer?”
“That's when it was really bad—I don't talk about it but I, um, I
tried to hurt myself. That's basically ‘how I spent my summer
vacation,' actually.” I barely bother with the air quotes and the jokey
voice. My nervous laugh borders on villainous, deep and knotted. “So
embarrassing.”
“And no one knows this?”
“Uh, not that last part, nope.” I feel heavy, a syrupy mess of guilt
and regret and shame.
“Oh, Morgan, I'm so sorry.” She pulls me into a close hug, resting
her chin on the top of my head. “You shouldn't be embarrassed! I just
wish you didn't have to deal with that on your own. You know we're all
here for you, right?”
Okay, so now the tears have busted right past the ducts. I wipe my
eyes with the sleeve of my hoodie.
“Yeah, I know. It's not your problem, though. And I didn't want
you guys to look at me different, like I'm crazy.”
“Psh, we would never. I care about you. Those idiots in there
singing off-key Elton John? They freaking love you. Dude, we're your
friends.”
“I know. And it's not that I don't want you guys to know, exactly,
it's just…talking about it is scary even for me. And if I talk about it, if I
say that I honestly wanted to die, like it was that bad, then it's true. I
guess I just didn't want it to be the truth.”
Letting my head rest on her chest, I feel so incredibly safe. Finally
comfortable, not at all anxious.
When we unlink, she lifts up the dregs of the champagne in cheers,
and I accept.
“Hey,” she squeaks casually, “if it's too hard to talk about, maybe
you should write about it. Your depression.”
“Yeah,” I swallow. “I've been journaling about it.”
“No, I mean…Didn't you say you have another feature story to
write for the yearbook?”
The patio door groans open again, and James is posed in the
doorframe, donning plastic 2009 glasses.
“Happy New Year!”
“Happy New Year!” We throw our hands up, giggling.
“So, our rando guests went back to their friends' party down the
street. One more shot, then we're going to get baptized. Come on.”
“Yo.” I swat his arm on my way back inside. “What was the deal
with that guy? I don't even really know his name!”
James just scoffs mysteriously, shakes his head. What I decide to
do next is let go.
Sean and David are sitting at the kitchen table playing drunk
Jenga, which is just building weird robot figures with the blocks.
David's wearing one of those Conehead party hats, with DICK written
on it.
Sean claps and rubs his hands together as we all crowd in around
the pile of Jenga blocks, noisemakers, beer cans, and red cups full of
floating cigarettes. “What are we drinking?”
I start clearing the cups from the table.
James buzzes around the TV tray we've propped up and called a
bar. “Well, I think those girls definitely finished off the tequila.
Captain Morgan?”
He turns to look at me for approval, and everyone giggles in their
syrupy haze at the nonsensical pun.
“Huh?” I puzzle. Then, like a light switch, I remember where I am
and who I am.
“Oh,” I gasp, “I hid a bottle under the sink!”
Everybody shouts in joy as Meg discovers it.
“Brilliant!” David claps. “To our sins!”
We traipse the few blocks to the ocean, drunk and giddy, talking
too loudly, laughing at everything. I stop when we step onto the sand,
awestruck.
It's like that heroic orchestral ending to Bright Eyes' “False
Advertising” or those slow, steady guitar riffs closing in on the final
perfect chords at the climax to the Best Weezer Album.
The world is enormous. It is incomprehensible. It's the best
argument for God I've ever seen. Or maybe, I think, this is God. This,
not memorized proverbs or parables. This, real beauty, better and
bigger than all of us. The fogged-over moon lights the surface of the
water in a translucent blue-black. The waves are like every song I've
ever loved.
I walk toward the shoreline. My friends are all distracted in their
own ways. Sean and James stand together wading and talking quietly;
David and Meg build sand mountains. I don't know why, but I start
taking off my clothes. It's cold and weird, like my skin knows some
parts of it aren't supposed to be in the open air. I get a rush. I follow
my own rules. I run into the Pacific until I am completely immersed.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE A MAP, MAKE A MAP OF
YOURSELF
After that, it's easy to write.
The next week, in the yearbook room, it's almost eleven at night
when I finish. I've listened to Modest Mouse's entire discography,
eaten two mangoes, and drunk a Venti mint green tea from Starbucks.
I save the file and pledge not to think about it until it's published. I
know it's not as dramatic, as big, as it feels to me. I know it's brave, but
I also know that the world is wide, that when I'm finally out of this
place, when I finally get a good view, this won't be much of a story.
Nonetheless, here I am, five foot nothing, an individual, scared to
death.
Darkness isn't a bad thing.
Don't follow rules you understand.
There is a lot of stuff that no one knows.
Anything can happen.
You can escape.
If you don't have a map, make a map.
Soon it will be just another bright and annoying day, dogs and car
pools waking, sprinklers showering manicured lawns in unison,
everything in unison, daring you to pay attention and do something.
This is a story about what happens after that.
If you don't have a map, be a map.